Azure_SDK
Azure_Services
Hosting_Platforms
Random_Notes
Serverless_Architecture

What is NoSQL?  A good article that explains a lot.
https://www.mongodb.com/nosql-explained

Azure for .NET developers
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/azure/

Configure Visual Studio for Azure development with .NET
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/azure/configure-visual-studio?source=recommendations

Quickstart: Deploy an ASP.NET web app
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-dotnetcore?tabs=netframework48&pivots=development-environment-vs

Managing Azure Services in a VS project
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIBqRVJyQF0

Configure Visual Studio for Azure development with .NET
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/azure/configure-visual-studio

App Authentication client library for .NET - version 1.6.0
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/overview/azure/service-to-service-authentication?view=azure-dotnet
-------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_SDK

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/azure/sdk/azure-sdk-for-dotnet

The Azure SDK for .NET is designed to make it easy to use Azure services from your .NET applications. Whether it is uploading 
and downloading files to Blob Storage, retrieving application secrets from Azure Key Vault, or processing notifications from 
Azure Event Hubs, the Azure SDK for .NET provides a consistent and familiar interface to access

Access from .NET applications - access to most Azure services is provided through the Azure SDK for .NET. The Azure SDK for .NET 
is provided as a series of NuGet packages and can be used in both .NET Core and .NET Framework applications. The Azure SDK for 
.NET makes incorporating Azure services into your application as easy as installing the correct NuGet package, instantiating a 
client object and calling the appropriate methods. More information on the Azure SDK for .NET can be found in the Azure SDK for 
.NET Overview.

Azure SDK client libraries typically expose one or more service client types that are the main starting points for calling 
corresponding Azure services. These client types names end with the word 'Client'e.g. BlockBlobClient can be used to call blob 
storage service, and KeyClient can be used to access Key Vault service cryptographic keys.


---
Azure Core shared client library for .NET
https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Core/1.30.0
Azure.Core provides shared primitives, abstractions, and helpers for modern .NET Azure SDK client libraries. Azure.Core allows 
client libraries to expose common functionality in a consistent fashion, so that once you learn how to use these APIs in one 
client library, you will know how to use them in other client libraries. These libraries have package and namespace names 
starting with 'Azure' e.g. Azure.Storage.Blobs, Azure.Messaging.ServiceBus, Azure.Storage.Files.Shares.
-------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Services

While Azure contains over 100 services, the following Azure services are the services you will use most frequently as a .NET developer.

Service	Descriptions
Azure App Service is a fully managed platform for hosting web applications and APIs in Azure. It features automatic load balancing 
and auto-scaling in a highly available environment. You pay only for the compute resources you use and free tiers are available.

Azure Functions is a serverless compute service that lets you write small, discrete segments of code that can be executed in a 
scalable and cost-effective manner, all without managing any servers or runtimes. Functions can be invoked by a variety of different 
events and easily integrate with other Azure services through the use of input and output bindings. You do not have to explicitly 
provision or manage infrastructure, and you pay only for the compute time your code actually uses.

Azure Functions documentation: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/
---

Azure SQL is a fully managed cloud based version of SQL Server. Azure automatically performs traditional administrative tasks like 
patching and backups for you and features built-in high availability.

Azure Cosmos DB is a fully managed NoSQL database with single digit response times, automatic scaling, and a MongoDB compatible API.
*NoSQL databases store data in a format other than relational tables.

Azure Blob Storage allows your applications to store and retrieve files in the cloud. Azure Storage is highly scalable to store 
massive amounts of data and data is stored redundantly to ensure high availability.

Azure Service Bus is a fully managed enterprise message broker supporting both point to point and publish-subscribe integrations. 
It is ideal for building decoupled applications, queue based load leveling, or facilitating communication between microservices.

Azure Key Vault	- Every application has application secrets like connection strings and API keys it must store. Azure Key Vault 
helps you store and access those secrets securely, in an encrypted vault with restricted access to make sure your secrets and 
your application are not compromised.

Azure Cognitive Services are a collection of cloud-based services that allow you to add AI based capabilities to your application. 
Examples include computer vision, speech recognition, language understanding, and anomaly detection.

For the full list of Azure products and services, visit the Azure documentation home page
-------------------------------------------------------------
Hosting_Platforms

Azure App Service is a fully managed platform as a service (PaaS) offering for developers. App Service is a Managed production 
environment that automatically patches and maintains the OS and language frameworks for you. It supports multiple language and 
frameworks. You can also run PowerShell and other scripts or executables as background services. Manage your apps in App Service 
by using Azure PowerShell or the cross-platform command-line interface (CLI). Scale up or out manually or automatically. Azure 
App Service supports Serverless Code.

When you want the quickest path to publish your web-based projects, consider Azure App Service. App Service makes it easy to 
extend your web apps to support your mobile clients and publish easily consumed REST APIs. This platform provides authentication 
by using social providers, traffic-based autoscaling, testing in production, and continuous and container-based deployments.

You can create web apps, mobile app back ends, and API apps.

Because all three app types share the App Service runtime, you can host a website, support mobile clients, and expose your APIs 
in Azure, all from the same project or solution.

App Service overview
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview

---
Connections to SaaS platforms and on-premises data. Authenticate users with Azure Active Directory, Google, Facebook, Twitter, 
or Microsoft account. Create IP address restrictions and manage service identities. Prevent subdomain takeovers.
For most scenarios, App Service is the best choice.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/overview
---
Software as a service (SaaS) allows users to connect to and use cloud-based apps over the Internet. Common examples are email, 
calendaring, and office tools (such as Microsoft Office 365). SaaS provides a complete software solution that you purchase on 
a pay-as-you-go basis from a cloud service provider.
---
Iaas(Infrastructure as a Service)
---
Besides App Service, Azure offers other services that can be used for hosting websites and web applications. For most scenarios, 
App Service is the best choice. For microservice architecture, consider Azure Spring Apps or Service Fabric. If you need more 
control over the VMs on which your code runs, consider Azure Virtual Machines.

-------------------------------------------------------------
Random_Notes

What is meant by continuous deployment?
Continuous deployment is a strategy in software development where code changes to an application are released automatically into 
the production environment. This automation is driven by a series of predefined tests. Once new updates pass those tests, the 
system pushes the updates directly to the software's users
---
Besides App Service, Azure offers other services that can be used for hosting websites and web applications. For most scenarios, 
App Service is the best choice. For microservice architecture, consider Azure Spring Apps or Service Fabric. If you need more 
control over the VMs on which your code runs, consider Azure Virtual Machines. For more information about how to choose between 
these Azure services, see https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/compute-decision-tree
-------------------------------------------------------------
Serverless_Architecture - Azure Functions simplify building solutions to handle event-driven workflows, whether responding to HTTP 
requests, handling file uploads in Blob storage, or processing events in a queue. You write only the code necessary to handle your 
event without worrying about servers or framework code. Further, you can take advantage of over 250 connectors to other Azure and 
third-party services to tackle your toughest integration problems.
---
Pluralsight course: Developing for Azure with Visual Studio 2022 by Matthew Soucoup
https://www.pluralsight.com/courses/visual-studio-2022-azure-developing

This course will teach you how to use the tools and features available in Visual Studio 2022 that will increase your inner 
development loop productivity when building Azure applications.

What you'll learn:
Visual Studio 2022 contains a wealth of tooling to help you develop Azure applications. In this course, Developing for Azure 
with Visual Studio 2022, you値l learn to use Visual Studio to its fullest when building Azure applications. First, you値l 
explore the tooling provided that will help you create applications and manage dependencies to other Azure services. Next, 
you値l discover several methods to deploy your applications to Azure with VS 2022. Finally, you値l learn how to attach to and 
debug an app running on Azure with Visual Studio 2022 and monitor its logs and performance. When you池e finished with this 
course, you値l have the skills and knowledge of the Azure tooling in Visual Studio 2022 needed to build Azure applications fast.


