Application_Hosting_Options
Azure_Containers
Azure_Identity_Access_Security
Azure_DNS
Azure_ExpressRoute
Azure_Physical_Infrastructure
Azure_storage_services
Azure_Virtual_Desktop
Azure_Virtual_Networking 
Azure_Virtual_Private_Networks
Compute_Networking_Services
Exercises_
Learning_Links
Missed_Questions
Random_Notes
Technical_Terms
You_should_be_able_to
*Left off: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/describe-azure-compute-networking-services/8-virtual-network

---------------------------------------------------------------
Application_Hosting_Options

App Service enables you to build and host web apps, background jobs, mobile back-ends, and RESTful APIs in the programming language 
of your choice without managing infrastructure. It offers automatic scaling and high availability. App Service supports Windows and 
Linux. It enables automated deployments from GitHub, Azure DevOps, or any Git repo to support a continuous deployment model.

With App Service, you can host most common App Service Styles like: Web apps, API apps, WebJobs and Mobile apps.

App Service handles most of the infrastructure decisions you deal with in hosting web-accessible apps:
	Deployment and management are integrated into the platform.
	Endpoints can be secured.
	Sites can be scaled quickly to handle high traffic loads.
	The built-in load balancing and traffic manager provide high availability.
---
App Service includes full support for hosting web apps by using ASP.NET, ASP.NET Core, etc.
REST-based web APIs come with full Swagger support and the ability to package and publish your API in Azure Marketplace.

You can use the WebJobs feature to run a program (.exe, Java, PHP, Python, or Node.js) or script (.cmd, .bat, PowerShell, or Bash) 
in the same context as a web app, API app, or mobile app. They can be scheduled or run by a trigger. WebJobs are often used to 
run background tasks as part of your application logic.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Containers

Azure Container Instances offer the fastest and simplest way to run a container in Azure; without having to manage any virtual 
machines or adopt any additional services. Azure Container Instances are a platform as a service (PaaS) offering. Azure Container 
Instances allow you to upload your containers and then the service runs the containers for you.

Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) is a container orchestration service. An orchestration service manages the lifecycle of containers. 
When you're deploying a fleet of containers, AKS can make fleet management simpler and more efficient.

Containers are often used to create solutions by using a microservice architecture. This architecture is where you break 
solutions into smaller, independent pieces. For example, you might split a website into a container hosting your front end, 
another hosting your back end, and a third for storage. This split allows you to separate portions of your app into logical 
sections that can be maintained, scaled, or updated independently.

Imagine your website back-end reaches capacity, but the front end and storage aren't stressed. With containers, you could scale 
the back-end separately to improve performance. If something necessitated such a change, you could also choose to change the 
storage service or modify the front end without impacting any of the other components.
-------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Identity_Access_Security

*** Azure directory services ***
Microsoft Entra ID is a directory service that enables you to sign in and access both Microsoft cloud applications and cloud 
applications that you develop. Microsoft Entra ID can also help you maintain your on-premises Active Directory deployment.

For on-premises environments, Active Directory running on Windows Server provides an identity and access management service that's 
managed by your organization. Microsoft Entra ID is Microsoft's cloud-based identity and access management service. If you've 
worked with Active Directory, Microsoft Entra ID will be familiar to you.

When you secure identities on-premises with Active Directory, Microsoft doesn't monitor sign-in attempts. When you connect Active 
Directory with Microsoft Entra ID, Microsoft can help protect you by detecting suspicious sign-in attempts at no extra cost. For 
example, Microsoft Entra ID can detect sign-in attempts from unexpected locations or unknown devices. It also has smart lockout 
services and a custom list of banned passwords.

Administrators can use Microsoft Entra ID to control access to applications and resources based on their business requirements.

Developers can use Microsoft Entra ID to provide a standards-based approach for adding functionality to applications that they build, 
such as adding SSO functionality to an app or enabling an app to work with a user's existing credentials.

Users can manage their identities and take maintenance actions like self-service password reset.

Single sign-on (SSO) enables you to remember only one username and one password to access multiple applications. A single identity is 
tied to a user, which simplifies the security model. As users change roles or leave an organization, access modifications are tied to 
that identity, which greatly reduces the effort needed to change or disable accounts.

Device management: Along with accounts for individuals, Entra ID supports the registration of devices. Registration enables 
devices to be managed through tools like Microsoft Intune. Entra ID also allows for device-based Conditional Access policies to 
restrict access attempts to only those coming from known devices

Application management: You can manage your cloud and on-premises apps by using Microsoft Entra ID.

If you only had an on-premises environment running Active Directory and a cloud deployment using Microsoft Entra ID, you would 
need to maintain two identity sets. However, you can connect Active Directory with Microsoft Entra ID, enabling a consistent 
identity experience between cloud and on-premises server.

* A domain in the context of IT and networking is a logical grouping of resources, such as computers, users, and other devices, 
that share a common database and security policies. Domains are typically managed using directory services like Active Directory(AD).
Domains help administrators efficiently organize, manage, and secure a network.

* Key Components of a Domain
Centralized Directory:
The core of a domain is the directory service, which stores information about resources (users, computers, printers, etc.) and 
their relationships. Admins can manage users, devices, and security policies from a single location.

Authentication and Authorization:
Domains provide centralized authentication using protocols like Kerberos or NTLM. Users and devices authenticate against the 
domain controller to access resources securely.

* The acronym NTLM stands for NT LAN Manager. It is a suite of Microsoft security protocols designed to provide authentication, 
integrity, and confidentiality in a network. NTLM is used to authenticate users and devices within a network.
It is primarily used in Windows environments for legacy systems or when modern protocols like Kerberos cannot be used.

Domain Controller (DC): - A component of the domain.
A server that manages the domain's directory database and provides authentication services like authentication, authorization, 
and policy enforcement for domain members.

Active Directory (AD): A Windows-based directory service used to store information about objects (users, computers, groups) within the domain.
Trust Relationships: Allows users in one domain to access resources in another domain.

Domains are Identified by a unique name, such as example.com or corp.local.

Group Policy is not supported in Azure AD, but is supported in Microsoft Entra Domain Services.
Use Azure AD for Modern apps and services and use Microsoft Entra Domain Services for legacy apps and hybrid integration.
---
Group Policy Management:
Administrators define settings, such as password policies, desktop configurations, centrally using Group Policy Objects (GPOs).
These settings are applied automatically to all users and devices in the domain. 

Group policy Management provides centralized configuration and policy management for domain-joined resources.

With Single Sign-On users log in once to access multiple resources within the domain.
Domains can support thousands of devices and users, making them suitable for small businesses to large enterprises.
You can easily share files, printers, and other resources among users in the domain.

Microsoft Entra Domain Services can be deployed into a virtual network in Azure.
Entra Domain Services enables Azure VMs to join the domain and leverage centralized management and authentication.
---
Entra Domain Services integrates with on-premises AD through Azure AD Connect, enabling synchronization of users and credentials 
and Unified authentication for on-premises and cloud resources. Entra Domain Services provide domain services in the cloud for 
applications and resources hosted in Azure.

The Entra Domain Services feature called Domain Join, allows Azure VMs and other resources to join the domain for centralized management.

Microsoft Entra Domain Services is a service that provides managed domain services such as domain join, group policy, lightweight 
directory access protocol (LDAP), and Kerberos/NTLM authentication. Just like Microsoft Entra ID lets you use directory services 
without having to maintain the infrastructure supporting it, with Microsoft Entra Domain Services, you get the benefit of domain 
services without the need to deploy, manage, and patch domain controllers (DCs) in the cloud.

A Microsoft Entra Domain Services managed domain lets you run legacy applications in the cloud that can't use modern authentication 
methods, or where you don't want directory lookups to always go back to an on-premises Active Directory Domain Service environment. 
You can lift and shift those legacy applications from your on-premises environment into a managed domain, without needing to manage 
the Active Directory Domain Service environment in the cloud.

Microsoft Entra Domain Services integrates with your existing Microsoft Entra tenant. This integration lets users sign into services 
and applications connected to the managed domain using their existing credentials. You can also use existing groups and user accounts 
to secure access to resources. These features provide a smoother lift-and-shift of on-premises resources to Azure.

When you create a Microsoft Entra Domain Services managed domain, you define a unique namespace. This namespace is the domain name. 
Two Windows Server domain controllers are then deployed into your selected Azure region. This deployment of domain controllers is 
known as a replica set. You don't need to manage, configure, or update these domain controllers. The Azure platform handles the 
domain controllers as part of the managed domain, including backups and encryption at rest using Azure Disk Encryption.

If you had an on-premises environment running Active Directory and a cloud deployment using Microsoft Entra ID, you would need to 
maintain two identity sets. However, you can connect Active Directory with Microsoft Entra ID, enabling a consistent identity 
experience between cloud and on-premises.

One method of connecting Microsoft Entra ID with your on-premises AD is using Microsoft Entra Connect. Microsoft Entra Connect 
synchronizes user identities between on-premises Active Directory and Microsoft Entra ID. Microsoft Entra Connect synchronizes 
changes between both identity systems, so you can use features like SSO, multifactor authentication, and self-service password 
reset under both systems.

A managed domain is configured to perform a one-way synchronization from Microsoft Entra ID to Microsoft Entra Domain Services. 
You can create resources directly in the managed domain, but they aren't synchronized back to Microsoft Entra ID. In a hybrid 
environment with an on-premises AD DS environment, Microsoft Entra Connect synchronizes identity information with Microsoft Entra ID, 
which is then synchronized to the managed domain.

* Multifactor Authentication (MFA) is a security process that requires users to verify their identity using two or more distinct 
factors before gaining access to a system, application, or account. Examples are passwords, PINs, security questions, smartphone, 
hardware token, smart card, fingerprints, facial recognition and voice recognition.

Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication is a Microsoft service that provides multifactor authentication capabilities.
Passwordless authentication methods are more convenient because the password is removed and replaced with something you have, plus 
something you are, or something you know.

Microsoft global Azure and Azure Government offer three passwordless authentication options that integrate with Microsoft Entra ID:
Windows Hello for Business: Biometric and PIN credentials are directly tied to the user's PC.  Has public key infrastructure (PKI) 
integration and built-in support for single sign-on (SSO),

Microsoft Authenticator app: Turns any iOS or Android phone into a strong, passwordless credential. Users can sign-in to any 
platform or browser by getting a notification to their phone, matching a number displayed on the screen to the one on their phone, 
and then using their biometric (touch or face) or PIN to confirm. 

FIDO2 security keys: (Fast IDentity Online) FIDO2 security keys are an unphishable standards-based passwordless authentication 
method that can come in any form factor. Fast Identity Online (FIDO) is an open standard for passwordless authentication. FIDO 
allows users and organizations to leverage the standard to sign-in to their resources without a username or password by using an 
external security key or a platform key built into a device.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_DNS

Azure DNS is a hosting service for DNS domains that provides name resolution by using Microsoft Azure infrastructure. By hosting 
your domains in Azure, you can manage your DNS records using the same credentials, APIs, tools, and billing services.

DNS domains in Azure DNS are hosted on Azure's global network of DNS name servers, providing resiliency and high availability. 
Azure DNS uses anycast networking, so the closest available DNS server answers each DNS query, providing fast performance and 
high availability for your domain.

Azure DNS can manage DNS records for your Azure services and provide DNS for your external resources as well. Azure DNS is 
integrated in the Azure portal and uses the same credentials, support contract, and billing as your other Azure services.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_ExpressRoute

Azure ExpressRoute lets you extend your on-premises networks into the Microsoft cloud over a private connection, with the help of 
a connectivity provider. This connection is called an ExpressRoute Circuit. This feature allows you to connect offices, 
datacenters, or other facilities to the Microsoft cloud. Each location would have its own ExpressRoute circuit.

ExpressRoute connections don't go over the public Internet. This setup allows ExpressRoute connections to offer more reliability, 
faster speeds, consistent latencies, and higher security than typical connections over the Internet.

Security
Azure DNS is based on Azure Resource Manager, which provides features such as:
Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) to control who has access to specific actions for your organization.
Activity logs to monitor how a user in your organization modified a resource or to find an error when troubleshooting.
Resource locking to lock a subscription, resource group, or resource. Locking prevents other users in your organization from 
accidentally deleting or modifying critical resources.

Azure DNS can manage DNS records for your Azure services and provide DNS for your external resources as well. You can manage 
your domains and records with the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell cmdlets, and the cross-platform Azure CLI. Applications that 
require automated DNS management can integrate with the service by using the REST API and SDKs.

Customizable virtual networks with private domains
Azure DNS also supports private DNS domains. This feature allows you to use your own custom domain names in your private virtual 
networks, rather than being stuck with the Azure-provided names.

Customizable virtual networks with private domains
Azure DNS also supports private DNS domains. This feature allows you to use your own custom domain names in your private 
virtual networks, rather than being stuck with the Azure-provided names.

Important!
You can't use Azure DNS to buy a domain name. For an annual fee, you can buy a domain name by using App Service domains or 
a third-party domain name registrar. Once purchased, your domains can be hosted in Azure DNS for record management.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Physical_Infrastructure

The core architectural components of Azure may be broken down into two main groupings: the physical infrastructure, and the 
management infrastructure.

DataCenters are facilities with resources arranged in racks, with dedicated power, cooling, and networking infrastructure.
Individual datacenters aren’t directly accessible. Datacenters are grouped into Azure Regions or Azure Availability Zones.

A region is a geographical area on the planet that contains at least one, but potentially multiple datacenters that are nearby 
and networked together with a low-latency network. Azure intelligently assigns and controls the resources within each region to 
ensure workloads are appropriately balanced.

Some services or virtual machine (VM) features are only available in certain regions, such as specific VM sizes or storage types. 
There are also some global Azure services that don't require you to select a particular region, such as Microsoft Entra ID, Azure 
Traffic Manager, and Azure DNS.

An Azure Availability Zone is a physically separate location within an Azure region, designed to provide high availability and 
fault tolerance for your applications and data. Each availability zone is an independent set of data centers within an Azure Region.

An availability zone is set up to be an isolation boundary. 
If one zone goes down, the other continues working. Availability zones are connected through private fiber-optic networks.

When you host your infrastructure, setting up your own redundancy requires that you create duplicate hardware environments. 
Azure can help make your app highly available through availability zones.

Build high-availability into your application architecture by co-locating your compute, storage, networking, and data resources 
within an availability zone and replicating in other availability zones.

Important
Zone-Enabled Regions are Azure regions that support availability zones.
A minimum of three separate availability zones are located in all availability zone-enabled regions. 
Not all "Azure Regions" currently support availability zones.

Availability zones are primarily for VMs, managed disks, load balancers, and SQL databases. Azure services that support 
availability zones fall into three categories:
1) Zonal services: A zonal service refers to a resource or service that is explicitly pinned to a specific availability zone 
within a region. This means the resource is deployed in and operates from a single availability zone, providing precise control 
over its placement for high availability or performance needs.

2) Zone-redundant services: The platform replicates automatically across zones (i.e. zone-redundant storage, SQL Database).

3) Non-regional services: Services are always available from Azure geographies and are resilient to zone-wide outages as 
well as region-wide outages.

Even with the additional resiliency that availability zones provide, it’s possible that an event could be so large that it 
impacts multiple availability zones in a single region. To provide even further resilience, Azure has Region Pairs.

Region pairs
Most Azure regions are paired with another region within the same geography (such as US, Europe, or Asia) at least 300 miles away.
Most regions are paired in two directions, meaning they are the backup for the region that provides a backup for them.

Important! Not all Azure services automatically replicate data or automatically fall back from a failed region to cross-replicate 
to another enabled region. In these scenarios, recovery and replication must be configured by the customer.

Planned Azure updates are rolled out to paired regions one region at a time to minimize downtime and risk of application outage.

Sovereign regions are instances of Azure that are isolated from the main instance of Azure. i.e. US government agencies.
---
Azure management infrastructure includes Azure resources and resource groups, subscriptions, and accounts.
A resource is the basic building block of Azure. Anything you create, provision, deploy, etc. is a resource.

Resource groups are simply groupings of resources. When you create a resource, you’re required to place it into a resource group. 
While a resource group can contain many resources, a single resource can only be in one resource group at a time. Some resources 
may be moved between resource groups, but when you move a resource to a new group, it will no longer be associated with the former 
group. Additionally, resource groups can not be nested.

You can control access levels at the resource group level by using Azure Role-Based Access Control (RBAC).

When you apply an action to a resource group, that action will apply to all the resources within the resource group. If you delete 
a resource group, all the resources will be deleted. If you grant or deny access to a resource group, you’ve granted or denied 
access to all the resources within the resource group.

Azure, subscriptions are a unit of management, billing, and scale. Similar to how resource groups are a way to logically organize 
resources, subscriptions allow you to logically organize your resource groups and facilitate billing.

A subscription provides you with authenticated and authorized access to Azure products and services. It also allows you to 
provision resources. An Azure subscription links to an Azure account, which is an identity in Microsoft Entra ID or in a directory 
that Microsoft Entra ID trusts.

An account can have multiple subscriptions, but it’s only required to have one. In a multi-subscription account, you can use the 
subscriptions to configure different billing models and apply different access-management policies. You can use Azure subscriptions 
to define boundaries around Azure products, services, and resources. The two types of subscription boundaries that you can use are:

1) Billing boundary: This subscription type determines how an Azure account is billed for using Azure.
Azure generates separate billing reports and invoices for each subscription so that you can organize and manage costs.

2) Access control boundary: Azure applies access-management policies at the subscription level, and you can create separate 
subscriptions to reflect different organizational structures.

You can choose to create subscriptions to set up separate environments for development and testing, security, or to isolate data 
for compliance reasons.

You can create subscriptions to reflect different organizational structures. For example, you could limit one team to lower-cost 
resources, while allowing the IT department a full range.

You can create additional subscriptions for billing purposes. Because costs are first aggregated at the subscription level, you 
might want to create subscriptions to manage and track costs based on your needs.

Resources are gathered into resource groups, and resource groups are gathered into subscriptions.

You organize subscriptions into containers called management groups and apply governance conditions to the management groups. All 
subscriptions within a management group automatically inherit the conditions applied to the management group. Management groups 
can be nested.

If you created a policy for a management group called Production, this policy would be inherited by all the subscriptions that 
are descendants of the production management group and will apply to all resources under those subscriptions. This security 
policy can not be altered by the resource or the subscription owner, which allows for improved governance.

By moving multiple subscriptions under a management group, you can create one Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)
assignment on the management group. Assigning Azure RBAC at the management group level means that all sub-management groups, 
subscriptions, resource groups, and resources underneath that management group would also inherit those permissions. One 
assignment on the management group can enable users to have access to everything they need instead of scripting Azure RBAC 
over different subscriptions.

Important facts about management groups:
10,000 management groups can be supported in a single directory.
A management group tree can support up to six levels of depth. This limit doesn't include the root level or the subscription level.
Each management group and subscription can support only one parent.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_storage_services

* Low latency refers to the minimal delay between a request for data and the corresponding response or action. It is a 
critical performance metric in systems where real-time or near-real-time responses are required.

* Synchronous Replication: All copies of data are updated at the same time.

* Lower availability in the context of an Azure storage account refers to the likelihood that your data might not be accessible at all times.

Standard general-purpose v2 - Storage Tier
Standard storage account type for blobs, file shares, queues, and tables. Recommended for most scenarios using Azure Storage. 
If you want support for network file system (NFS) in Azure Files, use the premium file shares account type.

Premium block blobs - Storage Tier
Premium storage account type for block blobs and append blobs. Recommended for scenarios with high transaction rates or that 
use smaller objects or require consistently low storage latency. Blob Storage (including Data Lake Storage)
---
Premium file shares - Storage Tier
Premium storage account type for file shares only. Recommended for enterprise or high-performance scale applications. Use this 
account type if you want a storage account that supports both Server Message Block (SMB) and NFS file shares. NFS (Network 
File System) file shares are file storage solutions that enable multiple clients to access and share files over a network.

Premium page blobs - performance-optimized storage tier	(Page blobs only)
Performance Optimization:
Offers low latency for data access compared to other tiers, such as hot, cool, and archive which are lower in performance.
High throughput for read and write operations. Uses Solid-State Drive (SSD)-Based Storage.

Transaction-Optimized Pricing: Designed for applications with high transaction rates;
Availability: Offered in specific Azure regions. Supports local redundancy (LRS) and zone redundancy (ZRS) for data durability.
---
One of the benefits of using an Azure Storage Account is having a unique namespace in Azure for your data. In order to do this, 
every storage account in Azure must have a unique-in-Azure account name. The combination of the account name and the Azure 
Storage service endpoint forms the endpoints for your storage account. Your storage account name must be unique within Azure. 
No two storage accounts can have the same name.
Blob Storage			https://<storage-account-name>.blob.core.windows.net
Data Lake Storage Gen2	https://<storage-account-name>.dfs.core.windows.net
Azure Files				https://<storage-account-name>.file.core.windows.net
Queue Storage			https://<storage-account-name>.queue.core.windows.net
Table Storage			https://<storage-account-name>.table.core.windows.net

One of the factors that help determine which redundancy option you should choose is whether your application requires read access 
to the replicated data in the secondary region if the primary region becomes unavailable. 

Locally redundant storage (LRS) replicates your data three times within a single data center in the primary region. LRS is the 
lowest-cost redundancy option and offers the least durability compared to other options. LRS protects your data against server 
rack and drive failures.

Zone-redundant storage (ZRS) replicates your Azure Storage data, in the same zone, synchronously across three Azure availability 
zones in the primary region. When you create a storage account, you select the primary region for the account. The paired secondary 
region is based on Azure Region Pairs, and can't be changed.

Azure Storage offers two options for copying your data to a secondary region: geo-redundant storage (GRS) and geo-zone-redundant 
storage (GZRS). GRS is similar to running LRS in two regions, and GZRS is similar to running ZRS in the primary region and LRS 
in the secondary region.

By default, data in the secondary region isn't available for read or write access unless there's a failover to the secondary region.

GRS copies your data synchronously three times within a single physical location in the primary region using LRS. It then copies 
your data asynchronously to a single physical location in the secondary region (the region pair) using LRS.

Geo-zone-redundant storage (GZRS) Data in a GZRS storage account is copied across three Azure availability zones in the primary 
region (similar to ZRS) and is also replicated to a secondary geographic region, using LRS(3X in one data center).

In the case of a regional outage failure, your data is available to be read only if the customer or Microsoft initiates a failover 
from the primary to secondary region. However, if you enable read access to the secondary region, your data is always available, 
even when the primary region is running optimally. For read access to the secondary region, enable read-access geo-redundant 
storage (RA-GRS) or read-access geo-zone-redundant storage (RA-GZRS).
---
All data written to an Azure storage account is encrypted by the service. Azure Storage provides you with fine-grained control 
over who has access to your data.

Blob Storage service
Azure Blob storage is an object storage solution for the cloud. It can store massive amounts of data, such as text or binary data.
Blob storage can manage thousands of simultaneous uploads, massive amounts of video data, constantly growing log files, and can 
be reached from anywhere with an internet connection.

One advantage of blob storage over disk storage is that it doesn't require developers to think about or manage disks. Data is 
uploaded as blobs, and Azure takes care of the physical storage needs. Blob storage is ideal for:
	Serving images or documents directly to a browser.
	Storing files for distributed access.
	Streaming video and audio.
	Storing data for backup and restore, disaster recovery, and archiving.
	Storing data for analysis by an on-premises or Azure-hosted service.

Azure Storage offers different access tiers for your blob storage, helping you store object data in the most cost-effective manner:
	Hot access tier: Optimized for storing data that is accessed frequently (for example, images for your website).
	Cool access tier: Optimized for data that is infrequently accessed and stored for at least 30 days 
	                  (for example, invoices for your customers).
	Cold access tier: Optimized for storing data that is infrequently accessed and stored for at least 90 days.
	Archive access tier: Appropriate for data that is rarely accessed and stored for at least 180 days, with flexible 
	                     latency requirements (for example, long-term backups).

The following considerations apply to the different access tiers:
	Hot, cool, and cold access tiers can be set at the account level. The archive access tier isn't available at the account level.
	Hot, cool, cold, and archive tiers can be set at the blob level, during or after upload.
	Data in the cool and cold access tiers can tolerate slightly lower availability, but still requires high durability, 
	retrieval latency, and throughput characteristics similar to hot data. For cool and cold data, a lower availability 
	service-level agreement (SLA) and higher access costs compared to hot data are acceptable trade-offs for lower storage costs.
	Archive storage stores data offline and offers the lowest storage costs, but also the highest costs to rehydrate and access data.

PowerShell cmdlets and Azure CLI can be used to create, mount, and manage Azure file shares as part of the administration of Azure 
applications. You can create and manage Azure file shares using Azure portal and Azure Storage Explorer.

Familiar programmability: Applications running in Azure can access data in the share via file system I/O APIs. Developers can 
therefore use their existing code and skills to migrate existing applications. In addition to System IO APIs, you can use Azure 
Storage Client Libraries or the Azure Storage REST API.

Azure Queue storage is a service for storing large numbers of messages. Once stored, you can access the messages from anywhere 
in the world via authenticated calls using HTTP or HTTPS. A queue can contain as many messages as your storage account has room for 
(potentially millions). Each individual message can be up to 64 KB in size. Queues are commonly used to create a backlog of work 
to process asynchronously.

Queue storage can be combined with compute functions like Azure Functions to take an action when a message is received.
---
Azure Disk storage, or Azure managed disks, are block-level storage volumes managed by Azure for use with Azure VMs.

Azure Table storage stores large amounts of structured  non-relational data. Azure tables are a NoSQL datastore that accepts 
authenticated calls from inside and outside the Azure cloud.
---
Identify Azure data migration options

Azure Migrate is a service that helps you migrate from an on-premises environment to the cloud. Azure Migrate functions as a hub 
to help you manage the assessment and migration of your on-premises datacenter to Azure. Azure Migrate provides the following:
	Unified migration platform: A single portal to start, run, and track your migration to Azure.
	Range of tools: A range of tools for assessment and migration. 
	Assessment and migration: In the Azure Migrate hub, you can assess and migrate your on-premises infrastructure to Azure.

The Azure Migrate hub includes the following tools to help with migration:
 Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment. Discover and assess on-premises servers running on VMware, Hyper-V, and physical servers 
                in preparation for migration to Azure.
				Server Migration. Migrate VMware VMs, Hyper-V VMs, physical servers, other virtualized servers, and public 
                cloud VMs to Azure.
 Data Migration Assistant: Data Migration Assistant is a stand-alone tool to assess SQL Servers. It helps pinpoint potential 
                           problems blocking migration. It identifies unsupported features and new features that can benefit you 
						   after migration, and the right path for database migration.
 Database Migration Service: Migrate on-premises databases to Azure VMs that are running SQL Server, Azure SQL Database, or 
                             SQL Managed Instances.
 App Service migration assistant: Azure App Service migration assistant is a standalone tool to assess on-premises websites for 
                                  migration to Azure App Service. Use Migration Assistant to migrate .NET and PHP web apps to Azure.
 Data Box: Use Azure Data Box products to move large amounts of offline data to Azure. Data box has a storage capacity of 80 terabytes.
 ---
*** Identify Azure file movement options ***
In addition to large scale migration using services like Azure Migrate and Azure Data Box, Azure also has tools designed to help 
you move or interact with individual files or small file groups.

AzCopy is a command-line utility that you can use to copy blobs or files to or from your storage account. With AzCopy, you can 
upload files, download files, copy files between storage accounts, and even synchronize files. AzCopy can even be configured to 
work with other cloud providers to help move files back and forth between clouds.

Azure AzCopy is a command-line tool designed for fast and efficient data transfer. It allows users to automate and streamline data 
migration tasks. Here are the key use cases and capabilities of AzCopy:

Synchronizing blobs or files with AzCopy is one-direction synchronization. When you synchronize, you designated the source and 
destination, and AzCopy will copy files or blobs in that direction. It doesn't synchronize bi-directionally based on timestamps 
or other metadata

*** Key Features ***
1) Data Transfers to and from Azure Storage:
	Copy files, blobs, and directories to Azure Blob Storage.
	Transfer data to Azure Files (file shares).
	Upload and download to/from Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2.

2) High-Speed Data Transfers: Leverages parallel processing to maximize transfer speed.

3) Cross-Platform Support: Runs on Windows, Linux, and macOS.

4) Resume and Retry:
	Automatically retries failed transfers.
	Supports resuming interrupted transfers.

5) Authenticated Access:
	Works with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) credentials.
	Can use Shared Access Signatures (SAS) or account keys for secure access.

6) Compression and Filtering:
	Compress data during transfer to save bandwidth.
	Include or exclude specific files or directories using wildcard patterns.

7) Scalability: Ideal for large-scale migrations or frequent synchronization tasks.

*** Common Use Cases ***
Data Migration:
	Move on-premises data to Azure Blob Storage or to Azure Files.
	Transfer data between different Azure Storage accounts or regions.

Backup and Restore:
	Backup local data to Azure for disaster recovery.
	Restore data from Azure storage to on-premises systems.

Data Synchronization:
	Sync specific files or folders between a local system and Azure storage.
	Keep datasets up-to-date between storage accounts.

Log Management: Upload server logs, application logs, or diagnostics to Azure Blob Storage for analysis.

Integration with CI/CD Pipelines: Automate storage updates or backups as part of a DevOps workflow.

Archiving: Transfer large datasets to Azure for long-term archival.

*** AzCopy Example Commands *** 
Upload Files to Blob Storage: 
	azcopy copy "/path/to/local/files" "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>"

Download Files from Blob Storage:
	azcopy copy "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>" "/path/to/local/destination"

Synchronize a Directory:
	azcopy sync "/local/directory" "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>"

List Files in a Container:
	azcopy list "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>"

Remove Files from Blob Storage:
	azcopy remove "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>"

*** Features of AzCopy Synchronization ***
Directional Sync:
Source to Destination: Changes from the source are replicated to the destination. This includes uploading new files and deleting files at the destination if they no longer exist at the source (if configured).

Incremental Transfers:
Only modified or new files are transferred. Files that are identical between source and destination are skipped, saving time and bandwidth.

File and Directory Filters:
Sync specific files or exclude certain files using wildcard patterns.

Cross-Environment Support:
	Sync between:
		Local storage and Azure Blob Storage.
		Azure Blob Storage containers.
		Azure Files.

Deletion Options:
By default, AzCopy will not delete files from the destination.
Use the --delete-destination flag to remove files at the destination that are no longer present at the source. 

Monitor Logs: Use AzCopy’s log files to troubleshoot or verify successful transfers.

Use the --dry-run Option. Preview which files will be transferred or deleted without making any changes:
	azcopy sync "/local/directory" "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>" --dry-run

Authenticate Securely: Prefer Azure AD credentials or SAS tokens for secure access to storage accounts.
Automate with Scripts: Integrate AzCopy sync commands into scheduled tasks or DevOps pipelines for regular updates.	
---
File shares in Azure are a storage solution provided by Azure Files, a service within the Azure Storage platform. They are fully managed, 
cloud-based file shares that can be accessed via the Server Message Block (SMB) protocol or the Network File System (NFS) protocol. This 
makes them ideal for scenarios where multiple users or applications need access to the same files.

*** Key Features of File Shares ***
Access via Standard Protocols:
	SMB Protocol: Supports Windows, macOS, and Linux systems.
	NFS Protocol: Designed for Linux/UNIX-based systems.

Cross-Platform Compatibility: Azure file shares can be mounted on operating systems like Windows, Linux, and macOS, as well as 
                              accessed programmatically via REST APIs or SDKs.

Integration with Azure Services: File shares can be used as storage for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) pods, Azure Virtual Machines 
                                 (VMs), and other Azure services.

Hybrid Use Cases:
Use Azure File Sync to cache Azure file shares on on-premises Windows Servers for faster access while leveraging cloud scalability.

Security Features: Supports Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) authentication and role-based access control (RBAC).
	               Data can be encrypted both in transit and at rest.

Scalability: Each file share can scale up to 100 TiB in the premium tier, supporting high throughput and low latency 
             for demanding workloads.

Hybrid Environments: Integrate Azure file shares with on-premises servers using Azure File Sync, enabling fast local access 
                     with cloud backup

Standard File Shares:
	Designed for general-purpose file storage.
	Available in the cool and hot access tiers for cost optimization.

Premium File Shares:
	Provides high-performance, low-latency file storage.
	Ideal for I/O-intensive workloads like databases or media processing.
	Capacity up to 100 TiB.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Virtual_Desktop

Another type of virtual machine is the Azure Virtual Desktop. Azure Virtual Desktop is a desktop and application virtualization 
service that runs on the cloud. Azure Virtual Desktop provides centralized security management for users' desktops with Microsoft 
Entra ID. You can enable multifactor authentication to secure user sign-ins. You can also secure access to data by assigning 
granular role-based access controls (RBACs) to users.
---
*Entra ID, previously known as Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), is a cloud-based identity and access management (IAM) service 
provided by Microsoft. It is designed to help organizations securely manage and authenticate users, devices, and applications 
across various environments, including on-premises, cloud, and hybrid systems. Entra ID helps organizations manage user identities, 
ensuring that employees, partners, and customers can securely access company resources across cloud and on-premises environments.

Entra ID allows for the creation, update, and deletion of user accounts, as well as the management of their attributes, roles, and 
permissions. While traditional AD is commonly used in on-premises environments, Entra ID is typically used in cloud environments to 
manage identities and access for users and applications that reside in the cloud.
---
Azure Virtual Desktop lets you use Windows 10 or Windows 11 Enterprise multi-session which is the only Windows client-based 
operating systems that enables multiple concurrent users on a single VM. You can think of an Azure network as an extension 
of your on-premises network with resources that link to other Azure resources.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Virtual_Networking

Azure virtual networks and virtual subnets enable Azure resources, such as VMs, web apps, and databases, to communicate with each 
other, with users on the internet, and with your on-premises client computers. 

Azure virtual networks provide the following key networking capabilities: Isolation and segmentation, Internet communications, 
Communicate between Azure resources, Communicate with on-premises resources, network traffic routing, network traffic filtering, 
Connecting virtual networks.

Azure virtual networking supports both public and private endpoints to enable communication between external or internal resources 
with other internal resources. Public endpoints have a public IP address and can be accessed from anywhere in the world.
Private endpoints exist within a virtual network and have a private IP address from within the address space of that virtual network.

Azure virtual network(VNet) allows you to create multiple isolated virtual networks. When you set up a virtual network, you define a 
private IP address space that is in the private IP address range. The private IP range only exists within the virtual network and 
isn't internet routable. You can divide the private IP address space into subnets and allocate part of the defined address space 
to each named subnet. A subnet is defined by an IP address range, which is a subset of the IP address space of a larger network.

* A subnet, short for subnetwork, is a logical subdivision of a larger network. It is used to partition a single network into 
smaller, more manageable segments. Subnets improve network performance, enhance security, and allow better control of traffic 
flow within a network. A subnet is defined by an IP address range, which is a subset of the IP address space of a larger network.

For name resolution, you can use the name resolution service built into Azure. You also can configure the virtual network to use 
either an internal or an external DNS server. You can enable incoming connections from the internet by assigning a public IP 
address to an Azure resource, or putting the resource behind a public load balancer.

Virtual networks can connect not only VMs but other Azure resources, such as the App Service Environment for Power Apps, Azure 
Kubernetes Service, and Azure virtual machine scale sets. Service endpoints can connect to other Azure resource types, such as 
Azure SQL databases and storage accounts.

* The App Service Environment (ASE) for Power Apps in Azure provides a fully isolated and dedicated environment for securely 
running Power Apps and related Azure App Service apps at scale(ability to handle increased demand or workload through horizontal
and vertical scaling).

Azure virtual networks enable you to link resources together in your on-premises environment and within your Azure subscription.
There are three mechanisms for you to achieve this connectivity:
1) Point-to-site virtual private network connections are from a computer outside your organization back into your corporate network. 
   In this case, the client computer initiates an encrypted VPN connection to connect to the Azure virtual network.

2) Site-to-site virtual private networks link your on-premises VPN device or gateway to the Azure VPN gateway in a virtual network. 
In effect, the devices in Azure can appear as being on the local network. The connection is encrypted and works over the internet.

3) Azure ExpressRoute provides a dedicated private connectivity to Azure that doesn't travel over the internet. ExpressRoute is 
useful for environments where you need greater bandwidth and even higher levels of security. Azure ExpressRoute communicates over 
dedicated, private network connections provided by a third-party connectivity provider or a colocation(data center) facility. 
The medium used is typically high-speed fiber-optic cables within the connectivity provider's network and Microsoft's global 
backbone network.
---
By default, Azure routes traffic between subnets on any connected virtual networks, on-premises networks, and the internet. You 
also can control routing and override those settings, as follows:
1) Route tables allow you to define rules about how traffic should be directed. You can create custom route tables that control 
   how packets are routed between subnets.

2) Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) works with Azure VPN gateways, Azure Route Server, or Azure ExpressRoute to propagate 
   on-premises BGP routes to Azure virtual networks.

Azure virtual networks enable you to filter network traffic between subnets by using the following approaches:
1) Network security groups are Azure resources that can contain multiple inbound and outbound security rules. You can define 
these rules to allow or block traffic, based on factors such as source and destination IP address, port, and protocol.

2) Network virtual appliances are specialized VMs that can be compared to a hardened network appliance. A network virtual 
appliance carries out a particular network function, such as running a firewall or performing wide area network (WAN) optimization.
---
Connect virtual networks
You can link virtual networks together by using virtual network peering. Peering allows two virtual networks to connect directly 
to each other. Network traffic between peered networks is private, and travels on the Microsoft backbone network, never entering 
the public internet. Peering enables resources in each virtual network to communicate with each other. These virtual networks 
can be in separate regions. This feature allows you to create a global interconnected network through Azure.

User-defined routes(UDR) allow you to control the routing tables between subnets within a virtual network or between virtual 
networks. This allows for greater control over network traffic flow.
---
* Dynamic routing automatically adjusts network paths based on changes in the network topology, making it a versatile and 
powerful method for managing network traffic. Routers exchange routing information in real time using protocols like BGP. 
This allows the network to automatically adapt to changes such as link failures or new routes.

With Dynamic routing, new routers or subnets can be added without requiring a complete reconfiguration of the routing tables.
Dynamic Routing adjusts to congestion by redistributing traffic to less congested paths and chooses the best route based on 
real-time metrics such as bandwidth, latency, or hop count.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Virtual_Private_Networks

* An Azure VPN Gateway is a specific type of network gateway in Azure that provides secure, encrypted connections between Azure 
virtual networks (VNets) and on-premises networks or other Azure VNets. It enables hybrid cloud and multi-cloud connectivity 
through Virtual Private Network (VPN) technology.

A virtual private network (VPN) uses an encrypted tunnel within another network. VPNs are typically deployed to connect two or 
more trusted private networks to one another over an untrusted network (typically the public internet). Traffic is encrypted while 
traveling over the untrusted network to prevent eavesdropping or other attacks. VPNs can enable networks to safely and securely 
share sensitive information.

A VPN gateway is a type of virtual network gateway. Azure VPN Gateway instances are deployed in a dedicated subnet of the virtual 
network and enable the following connectivity:
	Connect on-premises datacenters to virtual networks through a site-to-site connection.
	Connect individual devices to virtual networks through a point-to-site connection.
	Connect virtual networks to other virtual networks through a network-to-network connection.

All data transfer is within a VPN gateway is encrypted inside a private tunnel as it crosses the internet. You can deploy only one 
VPN gateway in each virtual network. However, you can use one gateway to connect to multiple locations, which includes other 
virtual networks or on-premises datacenters.

When setting up a VPN gateway, you must specify the type of VPN - either policy-based or route-based. The primary distinction 
between these two types is how they determine which traffic needs encryption. In Azure, regardless of the VPN type, the method of 
authentication employed is a preshared key.

Policy-based VPN gateways specify the static IP address of packets that should be encrypted through each tunnel. This type of device 
evaluates every data packet against those sets of IP addresses to choose the tunnel where that packet is going to be sent through.
---
In Route-based gateways, IPSec tunnels are modeled as a network interface or virtual tunnel interface. IP routing, which can be 
either static routes or dynamic routing protocols, decides which one of these tunnel interfaces to use when sending each packet. 
Route-based VPNs are the preferred connection method for on-premises devices. Route-based VPNs are more resilient to topology 
changes such as the creation of new subnets. Route-based VPNs rely on route tables for traffic management, making them more 
adaptable to changing network configurations. Route-based VPNs allow multiple Site-to-Site(S2S) and Point-to-site(P2S) connections 
simultaneously. 

Route-based VPNs can configure active-active connections for high availability.

Use a route-based VPN gateway if you need any of the following types of connectivity:
	VNet-to-VNet - secure communication between Azure Virtual Networks (VNets), even if they are in different regions or subscriptions.
	Use Cases:
		Connecting microservices hosted in separate VNets.
		Facilitating resource segmentation by networking VNets securely.
	
	Point-to-site connections - Allows individual devices or remote users to securely connect to an Azure Virtual Network.
	Use Cases:
		Providing remote workers secure access to Azure-hosted resources.
		Combining with Site-to-Site(S2S) for comprehensive remote and on-premises access.
	
	Multisite connections - Connects multiple on-premises locations to a single Azure Virtual Network.
	Use Cases:
		Centralizing connectivity for multiple branch offices.
		Configuring a hub-and-spoke network topology.
	Dynamic Routing Supports Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) for dynamic routing, which simplifies complex routing configurations.
	Use Cases:
		Scenarios where the network topology changes frequently, and dynamic route updates are required.
		Hybrid networks with on-premises equipment supporting BGP.

	Coexistence with an Azure ExpressRoute gateway - Enables a VPN failover for Azure ExpressRoute connections.
	Use Cases:
		Providing redundancy to ensure connectivity if the ExpressRoute circuit fails.
		Connecting Azure resources in regions or subscriptions not linked to the primary ExpressRoute.

	Site-to-Site (S2S) Connections - secure, always-on connectivity between an on-premises network and an Azure virtual network.
---
If your on-premises device only supports policy-based VPNs, a policy-based VPN gateway may be required, though it has limited 
functionality compared to route-based VPNs.

Use a route-based VPN gateway for hybrid cloud connectivity, interconnecting VNets, dynamic routing (BGP), multi-site 
configurations, and failover solutions for ExpressRoute. It is the preferred option for modern, scalable, and flexible 
networking needs in Azure.

Summary: High-Availability Scenarios for Azure VPN Gateways
	Active/Standby:
	Default configuration with two VPN gateway instances (one active, one standby).
	Standby takes over during maintenance or disruptions automatically.
	Minimal downtime: a few seconds for planned maintenance; up to 90 seconds for unplanned issues.
	
	Active/Active:
	Enabled by using BGP routing protocol.
	Both instances are active, each with its own public IP address.
	High availability is enhanced with separate tunnels to each instance and an optional additional on-premises VPN device.
	
	ExpressRoute Failover:
	Configures a VPN gateway as a backup for ExpressRoute connections.
	Uses the public internet as an alternative connectivity path during ExpressRoute outages caused by physical or location-wide failures.
	
	Zone-Redundant Gateways:
	Deploys VPN gateways across availability zones for added resiliency and scalability.
	Protects against zone-level failures by separating gateways physically and logically.
	Requires specific SKUs and Standard public IP addresses instead of Basic ones.
	These options provide varying levels of redundancy and fault tolerance to ensure secure and reliable connectivity for Azure networks.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Compute_Networking_Services

VMs provide infrastructure as a service (IaaS). You can create and provision a VM in minutes when you select a preconfigured VM image.

You can group VMs together to provide high availability, scalability, and redundancy. Azure can also manage the grouping of VMs 
for you with features such as scale sets and availability sets. An application might need to handle fluctuations in demand. Shutting 
down VMs when you don't need them or quickly starting them up to meet a sudden increase in demand means you pay only for the 
resources you use.

Virtual machine scale sets let you create and manage a group of identical, load-balanced VMs. Scale sets allow you to centrally 
manage, configure, and update a large number of VMs in minutes. The number of VM instances can automatically increase or decrease 
in response to demand, or you can set it to scale based on a defined schedule. Virtual machine scale sets also automatically deploy 
a load balancer to make sure that your resources are being used efficiently. With virtual machine scale sets, you can build 
large-scale services for areas such as compute, big data, and container workloads.
---
Virtual machine availability sets are another tool to help you build a more resilient, highly available environment. Availability 
sets are designed to ensure that VMs stagger updates and have varied power and network connectivity, preventing you from losing 
all your VMs with a single network or power failure.

Availability Sets accomplish these objectives by grouping VMs in two ways: Update Domain and Fault Domain.

Update domain: 
The update domain groups VMs that can be rebooted at the same time. This setup allows you to apply updates while 
knowing that only one update domain grouping is offline at a time. All of the machines in one update domain update at the same time. 
An update group going through the update process is given a 30-minute time to recover before maintenance on the next update domain 
starts.

Fault domain: fault domain is a logical group of hardware that shares a common single point of failure. It is used to enhance the 
availability and reliability of resources by distributing them across different fault domains, ensuring that a single hardware 
failure does not affect all instances of a resource.

The fault domain groups your VMs by common power source and network switch. By default, an Availability Set splits 
your VMs across up to three fault domains. This helps protect against a physical power or networking failure by having VMs in 
different fault domains (thus being connected to different power and networking resources). There’s no additional cost for 
configuring an availability set. You only pay for the VM instances you create.
---
An organization can extend the capabilities of its own on-premises network by creating a virtual network in Azure and adding VMs 
to that virtual network. As with running certain types of applications in the cloud and extending an on-premises network to the 
cloud, you can get significant cost savings by using an IaaS-based approach to disaster recovery. If a primary datacenter fails, 
you can create VMs running on Azure to run your critical applications and then shut them down when the primary datacenter becomes 
operational again.

VMs are also an excellent choice when you move from a physical server to the cloud (also known as lift and shift). You can create 
an image of the physical server and host it within a VM with little or no changes. Just like a physical on-premises server, you 
must maintain the VM: you’re responsible for maintaining the installed OS and software.

When you provision a VM, you’ll also have the chance to pick the resources that are associated with that VM, including:
	Size (purpose, number of processor cores, and amount of RAM)
	Storage disks (hard disk drives, solid state drives, etc.)
	Networking (virtual network, public IP address, and port configuration)
---------------------------------------------------------------
Exercises_

In this instance, you're going to use the Azure CLI. Task 1: Create a Linux virtual machine and install Nginx. Nginx is commonly 
used as a web server to serve static content (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, images, etc.) quickly and efficiently.

1) From Cloud Shell, run the following az vm create command to create a Linux VM:
	az vm create \
	--resource-group "learn-2ffbb06c-2df8-4e08-9772-93cce76be2ab" \
	--name my-vm \
	--public-ip-sku Standard \
	--image Ubuntu2204 \
	--admin-username azureuser \
	--generate-ssh-keys

2) Run the following az vm extension set command to configure Nginx on your VM:
	az vm extension set --resource-group "learn-2ffbb06c-2df8-4e08-9772-93cce76be2ab" --vm-name my-vm --name customScript --publisher Microsoft.Azure.Extensions --version 2.1 --settings '{"fileUris":["https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-welcome-to-azure/master/configure-nginx.sh"]}' --protected-settings '{"commandToExecute": "./configure-nginx.sh"}'

*The step 2 command uses a Custom Script Extension to run a Bash script on your VM. Here are the contents of the script:
	#!/bin/bash

	# Update apt cache.
	sudo apt-get update

	# Install Nginx.
	sudo apt-get install -y nginx

	# Set the home page.
	echo "<html><body><h2>Welcome to Azure! My name is $(hostname).</h2></body></html>" | sudo tee -a /var/www/html/index.html
---

---------------------------------------------------------------


---------------------------------------------------------------


---------------------------------------------------------------


---------------------------------------------------------------


---------------------------------------------------------------


---------------------------------------------------------------


---------------------------------------------------------------


---------------------------------------------------------------
You_should_be_able_to

Compare compute types, including container instances, virtual machines, and functions.
Describe virtual machine options, including virtual machines (VMs), virtual machine scale sets, virtual machine availability sets, and Azure Virtual Desktop.
Describe resources required for virtual machines.
Describe application hosting options, including Azure Web Apps, containers, and virtual machines.
Describe virtual networking, including the purpose of Azure Virtual Networks, Azure virtual subnets, peering, Azure DNS, VPN Gateway, and ExpressRoute.
Define public and private endpoints.
---
Describe Azure regions, region pairs, and sovereign regions.
Describe Availability Zones.
Describe Azure datacenters.
Describe Azure resources and Resource Groups.
Describe subscriptions.
Describe management groups.
Describe the hierarchy of resource groups, subscriptions, and management groups.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Learning_Links
Introduction to Azure network foundation services 4 hr 44 min
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/paths/intro-to-azure-network-foundation-services/
---------------------------------------------------------------
Missed_Questions
Which Azure Virtual Machine feature staggers updates across VMs based on their update domain and fault domain? Availability Sets.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Random_Notes

Functions can be either stateless or stateful. When they're stateless (the default), they behave as if they restart every time they 
respond to an event. When they're stateful (called Durable Functions), a context is passed through the function to track prior activity.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Technical_Terms

Big data refers to extremely large and complex datasets that are difficult to process, analyze, and manage using traditional data 
processing techniques or software tools. Big data typically requires advanced technologies and methods for efficient storage, 
analysis, and extraction of meaningful insights.



