Application_Hosting_Options
Azure_Containers
Azure_Cost_Management
Azure_DNS
Azure_ExpressRoute
Azure_Identity_Access_Security
Azure_Physical_Infrastructure
Azure_Service_Fabric
Azure_Stack
Azure_storage_services
Azure_Tools
Azure_Virtual_Desktop
Azure_Virtual_Networking 
Azure_Virtual_VPNs
Azure_VPN_Gateways
Cloud_Concepts
Compute_Networking_Services
Defintions_Explanations
Exercises_
Missed_Questions
Needs_a_home
Questions_
Random_Notes
Service_Level_Agreements

*Left off: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/describe-azure-compute-networking-services/8-virtual-network
Achievements: 
Microsoft Azure Fundamentals: Describe Azure architecture and services
Describe Azure identity, access, and security

:654 Prepare for recording *************************************
:244
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Recorded to here. 12/31  Azure01_Learn1.mp3
:358
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Recorded to here. 01/30  Azure01_Learn2.mp3
:495
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Recorded to here. 02/02  Azure01_Learn3.mp3
:586
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Recorded to here. 02/15  Azure01_Learn4.mp3

---------------------------------------------------------------
Application_Hosting_Options

App Service enables you to build and host web apps, background jobs, mobile back-ends, and RESTful APIs in the programming language 
of your choice without managing infrastructure. It offers automatic scaling and high availability. App Service supports Windows and 
Linux. App Service enables automated deployments from GitHub, Azure DevOps, or any Git repo to support a continuous deployment model.

With App Service, you can host most common App Service Styles like: Web apps, API apps, WebJobs and Mobile apps.

App Service handles most of the infrastructure decisions you deal with in hosting web-accessible apps:
	Deployment and management are integrated into the platform.
	Endpoints can be secured.
	Sites can be scaled quickly to handle high traffic loads.
	The built-in load balancing and traffic manager provide high availability.
---
App Service includes full support for hosting web apps by using ASP.NET, ASP.NET Core, etc.
REST-based web APIs come with full Swagger support and the ability to package and publish your API in Azure Marketplace.

You can use the WebJobs feature to run a program (.exe, Java, PHP, Python, or Node.js) or script (.cmd, .bat, PowerShell, or Bash) 
in the same context as a web app, API app, or mobile app. They can be scheduled or run by a trigger. WebJobs are often used to 
run background tasks as part of your application logic.

You can run JavaScript applications on Azure App Service using Node.js.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Containers

Azure Container Instances offer the fastest and simplest way to run a container in Azure; without having to manage any virtual 
machines or adopt any additional services. Azure Container Instances are a platform as a service (PaaS) offering. Azure Container 
Instances allow you to upload your containers and then the service runs the containers for you.

Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) is a container orchestration service. An orchestration service manages the lifecycle of containers. 
When you're deploying a fleet of containers, AKS can make fleet management simpler and more efficient.

Containers are often used to create solutions by using a microservice architecture. This architecture is where you break 
solutions into smaller, independent pieces. For example, you might split a website into a container hosting your front end, 
another hosting your back end, and a third for storage. This split allows you to separate portions of your app into logical 
sections that can be maintained, scaled, or updated independently.

Imagine your website back-end reaches capacity, but the front end and storage aren't stressed. With containers, you could scale 
the back-end separately to improve performance. If something necessitated such a change, you could also choose to change the 
storage service or modify the front end without impacting any of the other components.
-------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Identity_Access_Security

*** Azure directory services ***
Active Directory (AD) is a directory service. It is a hierarchical structure that stores and manages information about objects on 
a network, such as users, computers, and resources. AD provides authentication, authorization, and centralized management for 
Windows domain networks.

Microsoft Entra ID is a directory service that enables you to sign in and access both Microsoft cloud applications and cloud 
applications that you develop. Microsoft Entra ID can also help you maintain your on-premises Active Directory deployment.

Microsoft Entra ID is Microsoft's cloud-based identity and access management service. If you've worked with Active Directory, 
Entra ID will be familiar to you. For on-premises environments, Active Directory running on Windows Server provides an identity 
and access management service that's managed by your organization. 

When you secure identities on-premises with Active Directory, it doesn't monitor sign-in attempts. When you connect Active 
Directory with Entra ID, it can help protect you by detecting suspicious sign-in attempts at no extra cost. For example, Entra ID 
can detect sign-in attempts from unexpected locations or unknown devices. It also has smart lockout services and a custom 
list of banned passwords.

Administrators can use Microsoft Entra ID to control access to applications and resources based on their business requirements.

Developers can use Microsoft Entra ID to provide a standards-based approach for adding functionality to applications that they 
build, such as adding SSO functionality to an app or enabling an app to work with a user's existing credentials.
* The term "standards-based approach" refers to the use of industry-standard authentication and authorization protocols.

Users can manage their identities and take maintenance actions like self-service password reset.

Single sign-on (SSO) enables you to remember only one username and one password to access multiple applications. A single identity 
is tied to a user, which simplifies the security model. As users change roles or leave an organization, access modifications are 
tied to that identity, which greatly reduces the effort needed to change or disable accounts that are within the same organization.

Device management: Along with accounts for individuals, Entra ID supports the registration of devices. Registration enables 
devices to be managed through tools like Microsoft Intune. Entra ID also allows for device-based Conditional Access policies to 
restrict access attempts to only those coming from known devices
* The term "devices" refers to physical or virtual computing hardware that can be registered with Microsoft Entra ID to enable 
identity management, security policies, and compliance enforcement.

Application management: You can manage your cloud and on-premises apps by using Microsoft Entra ID.

If you only had an on-premises environment running Active Directory and a cloud deployment using Microsoft Entra ID, you would 
need to maintain two identity sets. However, you can connect Active Directory with Microsoft Entra ID, enabling a consistent 
identity experience between cloud and on-premises server by using the same identity set.

Entra ID Identity Secure Score is a feature within the Microsoft Entra admin center that evaluates your organization's 
identity security posture. Identity Secure Score provides a numerical score reflecting how well your tenant's identity configurations 
align with Microsoft's recommended best practices.

Entra ID Identity Protection is a feature that helps detect and mitigate identity-related risks, such as compromised accounts or 
suspicious sign-in activity, its primary focus is on identifying and responding to threats rather than providing a broad assessment 
of overall security practices. 

* A domain in the context of IT and networking is a logical grouping of resources, such as computers, users, and other devices, 
that share a common database and security policies. Domains are typically managed using directory services like Active Directory(AD).
Domains help administrators efficiently organize, manage, and secure a network. 

* Domains depend on DNS (Domain Name System) for name resolution, DHCP for IP addressing, and LDAP/Kerberos for authentication 
over the network.

The role of internal DNS in Azure is to enable name resolution within a virtual network (VNet) so that Azure resources can communicate 
with each other using hostnames instead of IP addresses.

An external DNS (Domain Name System) is responsible for resolving domain names to IP addresses for resources that are accessible 
over the public internet. It ensures that users can access websites, email servers, and other internet-facing services using 
human-readable domain names instead of numerical IP addresses.

* A network is a physical or virtual infrastructure that enables devices to communicate. Includes routers, switches, IP addresses, 
and protocols (e.g., TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP). A domain operates within a network – A domain is a logical structure that relies on a 
network to allow communication between devices.

Multiple domains can exist in the same physical or virtual network — especially in traditional AD. In Azure, there are some 
limitations, especially with Entra Domain Services, which requires separate VNets per domain instance.

A single domain can contain more than one virtual network. In Azure, virtual networks (VNets) can exist within the same domain
or subscription. You can create multiple VNets within a domain and connect them using VNet peering or VPN gateways to enable 
communication between them.

* Key Components of a Domain
Centralized Directory:
The core of a domain is the directory service, which stores information about resources (users, computers, printers, etc.) and 
their relationships. Admins can manage users, devices, and security policies from a single location.

Authentication and Authorization:
In a traditional on-premises Active Directory (AD) domain, a Domain Controller (DC) is a server that manages authentication, 
security policies, and directory services for users and devices. However, in Azure, the concept is different because Azure 
Active Directory (Entra ID) does not use traditional domain controllers. Azure AD is not a direct replacement for on-prem AD; 
it is cloud-based

* The acronym NTLM stands for NT LAN Manager. It is a suite of Microsoft security protocols designed to provide authentication, 
integrity, and confidentiality in a network. NTLM is used to authenticate users and devices within a network.
It is primarily used in Windows environments for legacy systems or when modern protocols like Kerberos cannot be used.

Active Directory (AD): A Windows-based directory service used to store information about objects (users, computers, groups) within the domain.
Trust Relationships: Allows users in one domain to access resources in another domain.

Domains are Identified by a unique name, such as example.com or corp.local.

Group Policy is not supported in Azure AD, but is supported in Microsoft Entra Domain Services.
Use Azure AD for Modern apps and services and use Microsoft Entra Domain Services for legacy apps and hybrid integration.
---
Group Policy Management:
Administrators define settings, such as password policies, desktop configurations, centrally using Group Policy Objects (GPOs).
These settings are applied automatically to all users and devices in the domain. 

Group policy Management provides centralized configuration and policy management for domain-joined resources.

With Single Sign-On users log in once to access multiple resources within the domain.
Domains can support thousands of devices and users, making them suitable for small businesses to large enterprises.
You can easily share files, printers, and other resources among users in the domain.

Microsoft Entra Domain Services can be deployed into a virtual network in Azure.
Entra Domain Services enables Azure VMs to join the domain and leverage centralized management and authentication.
---
Entra Domain Services integrates with on-premises AD through Azure AD Connect, enabling synchronization of users and credentials 
and Unified authentication for on-premises and cloud resources. Entra Domain Services provide domain services in the cloud for 
applications and resources hosted in Azure.

The Entra Microsoft Domain Services feature called Domain Join, allows Azure VMs and other resources to join the domain for centralized 
management. It allows domain-joined VMs in Azure to authenticate without a full on-premises AD setup.

Microsoft Entra Domain Services is a service that provides managed domain services such as domain join, group policy, lightweight 
directory access protocol (LDAP), and Kerberos/NTLM authentication. Just like Microsoft Entra ID lets you use directory services 
without having to maintain the infrastructure supporting it, with Microsoft Entra Domain Services, you get the benefit of domain 
services without the need to deploy, manage, and patch domain controllers (DCs) in the cloud.

A Microsoft Entra Domain Services managed domain lets you run legacy applications in the cloud that can't use modern authentication 
methods, or where you don't want directory lookups to always go back to an on-premises Active Directory Domain Service environment. 
You can lift and shift those legacy applications from your on-premises environment into a managed domain, without needing to manage 
the Active Directory Domain Service environment in the cloud.

Microsoft Entra Domain Services integrates with your existing Microsoft Entra tenant. This integration lets users sign into services 
and applications connected to the managed domain using their existing credentials. You can also use existing groups and user accounts 
to secure access to resources. These features provide a smoother lift-and-shift of on-premises resources to Azure.

* A Microsoft Entra tenant is a dedicated instance of Microsoft's identity and access management services for an organization. It is 
the backbone of identity management in Microsoft Entra and provides the infrastructure to manage users, groups, applications, 
and access to resources securely.

When you create a Microsoft Entra Domain Services managed domain, you define a unique namespace. This namespace is the domain name. 
Two Windows Server domain controllers are then deployed into your selected Azure region. This deployment of domain controllers is 
known as a replica set. You don't need to manage, configure, or update these domain controllers. The Azure platform handles the 
domain controllers as part of the managed domain, including backups and encryption at rest using Azure Disk Encryption.

If you had an on-premises environment running Active Directory and a cloud deployment using Microsoft Entra ID, you would need to 
maintain two identity sets. However, you can connect Active Directory with Microsoft Entra ID, enabling a consistent identity 
experience between cloud and on-premises.

One method of connecting Microsoft Entra ID with your on-premises AD is using Microsoft Entra Connect. Microsoft Entra Connect 
synchronizes user identities between on-premises Active Directory and Microsoft Entra ID. Microsoft Entra Connect synchronizes 
changes between both identity systems, so you can use features like SSO, multifactor authentication, and self-service password 
reset under both systems.

A managed domain is configured to perform a one-way synchronization from Microsoft Entra ID to Microsoft Entra Domain Services. 
You can create resources directly in the managed domain, but they aren't synchronized back to Microsoft Entra ID. In a hybrid 
environment with an on-premises AD DS environment, Microsoft Entra Connect synchronizes identity information with Microsoft 
Entra ID, which is then synchronized to the managed domain.

* Multifactor Authentication (MFA) is a security process that requires users to verify their identity using two or more distinct 
factors before gaining access to a system, application, or account. Examples are passwords, PINs, security questions, smartphone, 
hardware token, smart card, fingerprints, facial recognition and voice recognition.

Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication is a Microsoft service that provides multifactor authentication capabilities.
Passwordless authentication methods are more convenient because the password is removed and replaced with something you have, plus 
something you are, or something you know.

Microsoft global Azure and Azure Government offer three passwordless authentication options that integrate with Microsoft Entra ID:
1) Windows Hello for Business: Biometric and PIN credentials are directly tied to the user's PC.  Has public key infrastructure (PKI) 
   integration and built-in support for single sign-on (SSO). Windows Hello for Business is a security feature in Windows that 
   provides a passwordless authentication method for accessing devices, applications, and online services.

2) Microsoft Authenticator app: Turns any iOS or Android phone into a strong, passwordless credential. Users can sign-in to any 
platform or browser by getting a notification to their phone, matching a number displayed on the screen to the one on their phone, 
and then using their biometric (touch or face) or PIN to confirm.

3) FIDO2 security keys: (Fast IDentity Online) FIDO2 security keys are an unphishable standards-based passwordless authentication 
method that can come in any form factor. Fast Identity Online (FIDO) is an open standard for passwordless authentication. FIDO 
allows users and organizations to leverage the standard to sign-in to their resources without a username or password by using an 
external security key or a platform key built into a device.
---
Software OATH tokens are applications that generate one-time passwords (OTPs) based on the OATH TOTP (Time-Based One-Time Password) 
standard. These tokens are commonly used for multi-factor authentication (MFA) to enhance security. Examples include the Microsoft 
Authenticator app and other third-party authenticator apps.

Hardware OATH tokens are physical devices that generate one-time passwords (OTPs) based on the OATH TOTP (Time-Based One-Time 
Password) standard. These tokens are commonly used for multi-factor authentication (MFA) to enhance security. They are often
small hardware devices that display a time-based OTP that users can enter during the authentication process.
---
The Microsoft Authenticator app can be used as the primary form of authentication to sign into any Entra ID-enabled application.
The Authenticator can alos be use for secondary authentication when a user is prompted for multifactor authentication (MFA).
---
FIDO2 (Fast Identity Online 2) is an open authentication standard designed to enhance security and eliminate the need for 
traditional passwords. It uses public key cryptography to provide phishing-resistant, passwordless authentication for online 
services. 
How FIDO2 Works:
Registration: When a user registers with a FIDO2-supported service, their device generates a pair of cryptographic keys: a 
private key (stored securely on the device) and a public key (shared with the service). 

Authentication: During login, the service sends a unique challenge to the user's device. The device signs this challenge with the 
private key, and the service verifies it using the public key.

User Verification: To ensure the user is legitimate, the device may require biometric input (e.g., fingerprint or facial 
recognition) or a PIN before signing the challenge.

This process ensures that authentication is secure, user-friendly, and resistant to common attacks like phishing or keylogging.
---
Describe Azure external identities
Microsoft Entra External ID refers to all the ways you can securely interact with users outside of your organization. With External 
Identities, external users can "bring their own identities." Whether they have a corporate or government-issued digital identity, 
or an unmanaged social identity like Google or Facebook, they can use their own credentials to sign in. The external user’s 
identity provider manages their identity, and you manage access to your apps with Microsoft Entra ID or Azure AD B2C to keep your 
resources protected.

The following capabilities make up External Identities:
1) Business to business (B2B) collaboration - Collaborate with external users by letting them use their preferred identity to sign-in 
to your Microsoft applications.

1.1) Microsoft Entra ID B2C is a customer identity and access management (CIAM) solution. It allows organizations to manage and 
secure access to their applications for external users, such as customers, partners, or citizens. With Entra ID B2C, users can 
sign in using their preferred identity providers, like Google, Facebook, or Microsoft accounts, or create local accounts.

2) B2B direct connect - Establish a mutual, two-way trust with another Microsoft Entra organization for seamless collaboration. 
Enables external users to use their preferred identity to sign in to enterprise applications (SaaS apps, custom-developed adds, etc)
without being added as guests to each other's directories. Supports Entra ID and social identities.

3) Microsoft Azure Active Directory business to customer (B2C) - Publish modern SaaS apps or custom-developed apps 
(excluding Microsoft apps) to consumers and customers, while using Azure AD B2C for identity and access management.
---
Conditional Access is a tool that Microsoft Entra ID uses to allow (or deny) access to resources based on identity signals. 
Identity signals signals include who the user is, where the user is, and what device the user is requesting access from.

Conditional Access provides a multifactor authentication experience for users. For example, a user might not be challenged for 
second authentication factor if they're at a known location. However, they might be challenged for a second authentication factor 
if their sign-in signals are unusual or they're at an unexpected location.

Conditional Access is useful when you need to:
1) Require multifactor authentication (MFA) to access an application depending on the requester’s role, location, or network. For 
example, you could require MFA for administrators but not regular users or for people connecting from outside your corporate network.

2) Require access to services only through approved client applications. For example, you could limit which email applications 
are able to connect to your email service.

3) Require users to access your application only from managed devices. A managed device is a device that meets your standards for 
security and compliance.

4) Block access from untrusted sources, such as access from unknown or unexpected locations.
---
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Recorded to here. 12/31  Azure01_Learn.mp3
Azure enables you to control access through Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC).
Azure provides built-in roles that describe common access rules for cloud resources. You can also define your own roles. Each role 
has an associated set of access permissions that relate to that role.

Role-based access control is applied to a scope. A scope is a resource or set of resources that this access applies to.
RBAC is built on Azure Resource Manager and provides fine-grained access management of Azure resources.

Scopes include a management group(a collection of multiple subscriptions), a single subscription, a resource group, a single resource.
Azure RBAC is hierarchical, so that when you grant access at a parent scope, those permissions are granted to all child scopes.

Azure RBAC is enforced on any action that's initiated against an Azure resource that passes through Azure Resource Manager. 
Resource Manager is a management service that provides a way to organize and secure your cloud resources.

Azure Resource Manager is the deployment and management service for Azure. It provides a management layer that enables you to 
create, update, and delete resources in your Azure account.

You typically access Resource Manager from the Azure portal, Azure Cloud Shell, Azure PowerShell, and the Azure CLI. Azure 
RBAC doesn't enforce access permissions at the application or data level.

* Azure Cloud Shell is a browser-based, interactive shell that provides a command-line environment for managing Azure resources. 
It allows users to execute Azure CLI, Azure PowerShell, and other tools without needing local installations.

Resource Grouping: Resources can be grouped into resource groups, making it easier to manage and organize them.
Tagging: You can apply tags to resource groups to categorize and track them. A resource group can contain resources from multiple 
regions. There is no parent child relationship between resource groups and it's contained resources.
Applying tags to resource groups lets you:
	Track costs per project, team, or environment
	Filter/search in the portal more easily
	Automate based on tags (e.g., auto-shutdown all Environment = Dev)
	Audit and govern through Azure Policy
---
* Record this web page. Describe defense-in-depth.  Layers of defense-in-depth
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/describe-azure-identity-access-security/8-describe-defense-depth
---
Microsoft Defender for Cloud provides comprehensive protection for a wide range of resources across your cloud and on-premises 
environments. Here’s a more detailed list of the resources it protects:

Virtual Machines (VMs): Including Azure VMs, AWS EC2 instances, and Google Cloud VMs.

Virtual Machine Scale Sets: that allow you to create and manage a group of load-balanced virtual machines. 
They are designed to automatically scale in response to demand or a defined schedule.

App Services, Azure Kubernetes Service, Azure SQL Database, Azure Storage Accounts, Azure Key Vault,Azure Functions, Azure Logic Apps, 
Azure Cosmos DB, Azure Container Instances, Azure Synapse Analytics, Azure Databricks, Azure Data Lake Storage, Azure IoT Hub, 

Azure DevOps: Development collaboration tools. 

Azure API Management Manages APIs across all environments.
Azure Service Fabric: Distributed systems platform for microservices and containers.
Azure Event Hubs: Big data streaming platform and event ingestion service.
Azure Logic Apps: Automating workflows and business processes.

Defender for Cloud also extends its protection to on-premises resources and multicloud environments, including AWS and Google Cloud.

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/describe-azure-identity-access-security/9-describe-microsoft-defender-for-cloud
Defender for Cloud is a monitoring tool for security posture management and threat protection. Defender for Cloud monitors your 
cloud, on-premises, hybrid, and multicloud environments to provide guidance and notifications aimed at strengthening your 
security posture.

Microsoft Defender for Cloud is a cloud-native application protection platform (CNAPP) that provides threat protection for workloads 
running in Azure, on-premises, and in other clouds. Defender for Cloud offers security management and threat protection across your 
cloud resources, which includes virtual machines, databases, containers, and more. It includes features like security posture management,
threat protection, and compliance management

Defender for Cloud provides the tools needed to harden your resources, track your security posture, protect against cyber attacks, 
and streamline security management. Deployment of Defender for Cloud is easy, it’s already natively integrated into Azure.

When necessary, Defender for Cloud can automatically deploy a Log Analytics agent to gather security-related data. For Azure 
machines, deployment is handled directly. For hybrid and multicloud environments, Microsoft Defender plans are extended to non-Azure 
machines with the help of Azure Arc. Cloud security posture management (CSPM) features are extended to multicloud machines without 
the need for any agents(See below) to be installed.

* The word "agents" refers to software components or programs installed on a virtual or physical machine to enable communication, 
monitoring, and management with a central system or service. These agents act as intermediaries, collecting data from the machine 
or performing tasks based on instructions from the central service.

The Role of Agents in Cloud and Security Management:
Data Collection: Agents gather telemetry data, such as system performance, configuration, and security logs.
Task Execution: Agents can execute commands, enforce security policies, or remediate issues on the machine.
Communication: Agents send the collected data to a management platform (e.g., Azure) and receive instructions in return.
Customization: Agents are typically designed to support specific features or integrate with services like Microsoft Defender.

For agent base approaches, you can install the Azure Monitor Agent or Microsoft Defender for Endpoint agent on a machine.
Agentless based approaches do not require any software to be installed on the machines.

In the context of Azure security management, an agent-based approach involves deploying software agents on each endpoint that needs to 
be monitored and secured. These agents collect data from the endpoints, enforce security rules, and take action when necessary. This 
approach provides in-depth visibility and real-time threat protection for your IT infrastructure and data.

Microsoft Defender for Endpoint is an endpoint security platform that uses agents to provide advanced threat protection. These agents 
are installed on endpoints such as laptops, desktops, servers, and mobile devices. They collect and process behavioral signals from 
the operating system, send this data to the cloud, and help detect, investigate, and respond to threats

Defender for Cloud can also protect resources in other clouds (such as AWS and GCP).
For example, if you've connected an Amazon Web Services (AWS) account to an Azure subscription, you can enable any of these protections:
1) Defender for Cloud's CSPM features extend to your AWS resources. This agentless plan assesses your AWS resources according to 
   AWS-specific security recommendations, and includes the results in the secure score. The resources will also be assessed for 
   compliance with built-in standards specific to AWS. Defender for Cloud's asset inventory page is a multicloud enabled feature 
   helping you to manage your AWS resources alongside your Azure resources.
2) Defender for Containers extends its container threat detection and advanced defenses to your Amazon EKS Linux clusters.
3) Defender for Servers brings threat detection and advanced defenses to your Windows and Linux EC2 instances.

Defender for Cloud fills three vital needs as you manage the security of your resources and workloads in the cloud and on-premises:
1) Continuously assess – Know your security posture. Identify and track vulnerabilities.
2) Secure – Harden resources and services with Azure Security Benchmark.
3) Defend – Detect and resolve threats to resources, workloads, and services.

Defender for cloud helps you continuously assess your environment. Defender for Cloud includes vulnerability assessment solutions 
for your virtual machines, container registries, and SQL servers. Microsoft Defender for servers includes automatic, native 
integration with Microsoft Defender for Endpoint. With this integration enabled, you'll have access to the vulnerability findings 
from Microsoft threat and vulnerability management.

Between Defender for cloud and Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, you’ll have regular, detailed vulnerability scans that cover 
your compute, data, and infrastructure. You can review and respond to the results of these scans all from within Defender for Cloud.

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Recorded to here. 01/30  Azure02_Learn.mp3

Security
From authentication methods to access control to the concept of Zero Trust, security in the cloud is an essential basic that must 
be done right. In order to be secure in the cloud, you have to ensure your workloads are secure. To secure your workloads, you need 
security policies in place that are tailored to your environment and situation. Because policies in Defender for Cloud are built 
on top of [Azure Policy Controls], you're getting the full range and flexibility of a world-class policy solution. In Defender for 
Cloud, you can set your policies to run on management groups, across subscriptions, and even for a whole tenant.

One of the benefits of moving to the cloud is the ability to grow and scale as you need, adding new services and resources as 
necessary. Defender for Cloud is constantly monitoring for new resources being deployed across your workloads. Defender for Cloud 
assesses if new resources are configured according to security best practices. If not, they're flagged and you get a prioritized 
list of recommendations for what you need to fix. Recommendations help you reduce the attack surface across each of your resources.

The list of recommendations is enabled and supported by the Azure Security Benchmark. This Azure-specific benchmark provides a set 
of guidelines for security and compliance best practices based on common compliance frameworks. In this way, Defender for Cloud 
enables you not just to set security policies, but to apply secure configuration standards across your resources.

To help you understand how important each recommendation is to your overall security posture, Defender for Cloud groups the 
recommendations into security controls and adds a secure score value to each control. The secure score gives you an at-a-glance 
indicator of the health of your security posture, while the controls give you a working list of things to consider to improve your 
security score and your overall security posture.

Defender for Cloud Security alerts
When Defender for Cloud detects a threat in any area of your environment, it generates a security alert.
1) Security alerts describe details of the affected resources
2) Security alerts suggest remediation steps
3) Security alerts provide, in some cases, an option to trigger a logic app in response

Whether an alert is generated by Defender for Cloud or received by Defender for Cloud from an integrated security product, you 
can export the alert. Defender for Cloud's threat protection includes fusion kill-chain analysis, which automatically correlates alerts 
in your environment based on cyber kill-chain analysis. This will help you better understand the full story of an attack campaign, where 
it started, and what kind of impact it had on your resources.

Advanced threat protection
Defender for cloud provides advanced threat protection features for many of your deployed resources, including virtual machines, 
SQL databases, containers, web applications, and your network. Protections include securing the management ports of your VMs with 
just-in-time access, and Protections include adaptive application controls to create allowlists for what apps should and shouldn't 
run on your machines.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_DNS

A DNS domain refers to a namespace under which a unique set of resources can be identified by their domain names, such as 
example.com or subdomain.example.com. Name resolution is the process of converting a human-readable hostname or domain name 
(e.g., example.com or myvm.local) into an IP address (e.g., 192.168.1.10). This allows applications and users to connect to 
resources using friendly names instead of numerical IP addresses.

Azure DNS is a hosting service for DNS domains(which are namespaces). Azure DNS provides name resolution by using Microsoft 
Azure infrastructure. By hosting your domains in Azure, you can manage your DNS records using the same credentials, APIs, tools, 
and billing services.

DNS domains in Azure DNS are hosted on Azure's global network of DNS name servers. Azure DNS uses anycast networking, so the 
closest available DNS server answers each DNS query, providing fast performance and high availability for your domain.

Security
Azure DNS is based on Azure Resource Manager, which provides features such as:
	Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) to control who has access to specific actions for your organization.
	Activity logs to monitor how a user in your organization modified a resource or to find an error when troubleshooting.
	Resource locking to lock a subscription, resource group, or resource. Locking prevents other users in your organization from 
	accidentally deleting or modifying critical resources.

Azure DNS can manage DNS records for your Azure services and provide DNS for your external resources as well. You can manage your 
domains and records with the Azure portal, Azure PowerShell cmdlets, and the cross-platform Azure CLI. Applications that require 
automated DNS management can integrate with the service by using the REST API and SDKs.

Customizable virtual networks with private domains
Azure DNS also supports private DNS domains. This feature allows you to use your own custom domain names in your private 
virtual networks, rather than being stuck with the Azure-provided names.

Important!
An Internal DNS zone is a private DNS zone that is only accessible within your virtual network.
An External DNS zone is a public DNS zone that is accessible from the internet.

You can not use Azure DNS to buy a domain name. For an annual fee, you can buy a domain name by using App Service domains or 
a third-party domain name registrar. Once purchased, your domains can be hosted in Azure DNS for record management.

Which Microsoft Entra tool can vary the credentials needed to log in based on signals, such as where the user is located? 
Answer: Conditional Access is a tool that Microsoft Entra ID uses to allow (or deny) access to resources based on identity signals. 
Conditional Access might challenge you for a second authentication factor if your sign-in signals are unusual or from an unexpected 
location.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_ExpressRoute

Azure ExpressRoute lets you extend your on-premises networks into the Microsoft cloud over a private connection, with the help of 
a connectivity provider. This connection is called an ExpressRoute Circuit. This feature allows you to connect offices, 
datacenters, or other facilities to the Microsoft cloud. Each location would have its own ExpressRoute circuit.

ExpressRoute connections do not go over the public Internet. This setup allows ExpressRoute connections to offer more reliability, 
faster speeds, consistent latencies, and higher security than typical connections over the Internet.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Physical_Infrastructure

The core architectural components of Azure may be broken down into two main groupings: the physical infrastructure, and the 
management infrastructure.

DataCenters are facilities with resources arranged in racks, with dedicated power, cooling, and networking infrastructure.
Individual datacenters aren’t directly accessible. Datacenters are grouped into Azure Regions or Azure Availability Zones.
Azure organizes its data centers into regions and further divides some regions into Availability Zones to ensure redundancy and 
high availability. These data centers power cloud-based services like virtual machines, storage, networking, and databases.

Not all Azure regions include Availability Zones. Availability Zones are physically separate locations within an Azure region, 
designed to provide high availability and fault tolerance. However, even if a region does not have Availability Zones, it 
still contains datacenters.

A region is a geographical area on the planet that contains at least one, but potentially multiple datacenters that are nearby 
and networked together with a low-latency network. Azure intelligently assigns and controls the resources within each region to 
ensure workloads are appropriately balanced.

Some services or virtual machine (VM) features are only available in certain regions, such as specific VM sizes or storage types. 
There are also some global Azure services that don't require you to select a particular region, such as Microsoft Entra ID, Azure 
Traffic Manager, and Azure DNS.

An Azure Availability Zone is a physically separate location within an Azure region, designed to provide high availability and 
fault tolerance for your applications and data. Each availability zone is an independent set of data centers within an Azure Region.

An availability zone is set up to be an isolation boundary. 
If one zone goes down, the other continues working. Availability zones are connected through private fiber-optic networks.

When you host your own infrastructure, setting up your own redundancy requires that you create duplicate hardware environments. 
Azure can help make your app highly available through availability zones.

Important
Zone-Enabled Regions are Azure regions that support a minimum of three separate availability zones.

Availability zones are primarily for VMs, managed disks, load balancers, and SQL databases. Azure services that support 
availability zones fall into three categories:
1) Zonal services: A zonal service refers to a resource or service that is explicitly pinned to a specific availability zone 
within a region. This means the resource is deployed in and operates from a single availability zone, providing precise control 
over its placement for high availability or performance needs.

2) Zone-redundant services: The platform replicates automatically across zones (i.e. zone-redundant storage, SQL Database).

3) Non-regional services: Services that are not tied to a specific Azure region. Instead, they are globally available and provide 
their functionality without depending on the physical location of data centers. These services are designed to operate across 
regions or globally to ensure seamless operation and availability.

Even with the additional resiliency that availability zones provide, it’s possible that an event could be so large that it 
impacts multiple availability zones in a single region. To provide even further resilience, Azure has Region Pairs.

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Recorded to here. 02/02  Azure01_Learn3.mp3

Region pairs
Most Azure regions are paired with another region within the same geography (such as US, Europe, or Asia) at least 300 miles away.
Most regions are paired in two directions, meaning they are the backup for the region that provides a backup for them.

Important! Not all Azure services automatically replicate data or automatically fall back from a failed region to cross-replicate 
to another enabled region. In these scenarios, recovery and replication must be configured by the customer.

Planned Azure updates are rolled out to paired regions one region at a time to minimize downtime and risk of application outage.

Sovereign regions are instances of Azure that are isolated from the main instance of Azure. i.e. US government agencies.
---
Azure management infrastructure includes Azure resources and resource groups, subscriptions, and accounts.
A resource is the basic building block of Azure. Anything you create, provision, deploy, etc. is a resource.
A resource is the basic building block of Azure. Anything you create, provision, deploy, etc. is a resource.
A resource is the basic building block of Azure. Anything you create, provision, deploy, etc. is a resource.

Resource groups are simply groupings of resources. When you create a resource, you’re required to place it into a resource group. 
While a resource group can contain many resources, a single resource can only be in one resource group at a time. Some resources 
may be moved between resource groups, but when you move a resource to a new group, it will no longer be associated with the former 
group. Additionally, resource groups can not be nested.

A resource group is a logical container for resources that share the same lifecycle, permissions, and policies.

You can control access levels at the resource group level by using Azure Role-Based Access Control (RBAC).

Within a management group, all subscriptions must belong to the same directory(or tenant). This ensures that governance policies, role-based 
access control (RBAC), and compliance settings can be applied consistently across all subscriptions within the management group.
Each directory(or tenant) is given a single top-level management group called the root management group. The root is a boundary for
management and application of policy.

When you apply an action to a resource group, that action will apply to all the resources within the resource group. If you delete 
a resource group, all the resources will be deleted. If you grant or deny access to a resource group, you’ve granted or denied 
access to all the resources within the resource group.

Azure, subscriptions are a unit of management, billing, and scale. Similar to how resource groups are a way to logically organize 
resources, subscriptions allow you to logically organize your resource groups and facilitate billing.

A subscription provides you with authenticated and authorized access to Azure products and services. It also allows you to 
provision resources. An Azure subscription links to an Azure account, which is an identity in Microsoft Entra ID or in a directory 
that Microsoft Entra ID trusts.

An account can have multiple subscriptions, but it’s only required to have one. In a multi-subscription account, you can use the 
subscriptions to configure different billing models and apply different access-management policies. You can use Azure subscriptions 
to define boundaries around Azure products, services, and resources. The two types of subscription boundaries that you can use are:

1) Billing boundary: This subscription type determines how an Azure account is billed for using Azure.
Azure generates separate billing reports and invoices for each subscription so that you can organize and manage costs.

2) Access control boundary: Azure applies access-management policies at the subscription level, and you can create separate 
subscriptions to reflect different organizational structures.

You can choose to create subscriptions to set up separate environments for development and testing, security, or to isolate data 
for compliance reasons.

You can create subscriptions to reflect different organizational structures. For example, you could limit one team to lower-cost 
resources, while allowing the IT department a full range.

You can create additional subscriptions for billing purposes. Because costs are first aggregated at the subscription level, you 
might want to create subscriptions to manage and track costs based on your needs.

Resources are gathered into resource groups, and resource groups are gathered into subscriptions.

You organize subscriptions into containers called management groups and apply governance conditions to the management groups. All 
subscriptions within a management group automatically inherit the conditions applied to the management group. Management groups 
can be nested.

If you created a policy for a management group called Production, this policy would be inherited by all the subscriptions that 
are descendants of the production management group and will apply to all resources under those subscriptions. This security 
policy can not be altered by the resource or the subscription owner, which allows for improved governance.

By moving multiple subscriptions under a management group, you can create one Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)
assignment on the management group. Assigning Azure RBAC at the management group level means that all sub-management groups, 
subscriptions, resource groups, and resources underneath that management group would also inherit those permissions. One 
assignment on the management group can enable users to have access to everything they need instead of scripting Azure RBAC 
over different subscriptions.

Important facts about management groups:
10,000 management groups can be supported in a single directory.
A management group tree can support up to six levels of depth. This limit doesn't include the root level or the subscription level.
Each management group and subscription can support only one parent.

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Recorded to here. 02/15  Azure01_Learn4.mp3
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Service_Fabric
Azure Service Fabric is a distributed systems platform designed to simplify the development, deployment, and management of scalable 
and reliable microservices and containers. It supports both stateless and stateful microservices, making it versatile for various 
application needs. Service Fabric powers many Microsoft services, such as Azure SQL Database and Azure Cosmos DB, and can run on 
Azure, on-premises, or other clouds. Service Fabric also provides robust features for container orchestration, application 
lifecycle management, and high-density deployments.

Service Fabric provides a sophisticated, lightweight runtime that supports stateless and stateful microservices. A key differentiator 
of Service Fabric is its robust support for building stateful services, either with Service Fabric built-in programming models or 
containerized stateful services. Service Fabric Resource Provider is available in all Azure regions.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Needs_a_home

* Low latency refers to the minimal delay between a request for data and the corresponding response or action. It is a 
critical performance metric in systems where real-time or near-real-time responses are required.

* Synchronous Replication: All copies of data are updated at the same time.

* Availability Zone is a high-availability offering designed to ensure resilience and uptime for your applications and services. 
An Availability Zone represents a physically separate location within an Azure region, providing protection against data 
center-level failures.

* Lower availability in the context of an Azure storage account refers to the likelihood that your data might not be accessible 
at all times. Availability is typically measured as a percentage of time that the service is available.

* A data center is a physical facility that is used to house critical applications, data, and computing infrastructure.

* A distributed systems platform is a software or infrastructure framework that enables a collection of independent computers 
(nodes) to work together as a single cohesive system, providing shared services, computing power, and resources to users or 
applications — usually in a way that's scalable, fault-tolerant, and location-transparent.
	Decentralized	Work is spread across multiple nodes, not just one machine
	Scalable		Can grow horizontally (add more machines) to handle more load
	Fault-tolerant	Can keep running even if some nodes fail
	Transparent		Hides complexity — users don’t need to know where a resource physically lives
	Consistent		Ensures correct data/state across the system (with varying guarantees)
	Concurrent		Many processes run at once, often in parallel

---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Stack

Azure Stack is a family of products that brings Azure services to on-premises, edge, or hybrid environments. It’s Microsoft's way 
of letting you run Azure-like infrastructure and services outside the Microsoft cloud — whether that's in your own data center, 
on edge devices, or disconnected environments.

Not every organization can or wants to put everything in the public cloud.
Reasons include:
	Regulatory or compliance requirements
	Low-latency needs (edge computing)
	Disconnected environments (ships, oil rigs, military zones)
	Data sovereignty

Azure Stack Product Family
Azure Stack Hub	 Full-blown Azure-in-a-box for disconnected or sovereign environments. You manage it. Full IaaS and PaaS capabilities.
Azure Stack HCI	 Hyperconverged infrastructure optimized for running VMs on-prem. 
				 Tightly integrated with Azure services like Site Recovery, Defender, etc.
Azure Stack Edge Physical appliance for edge AI/compute/storage needs. Think machine learning at a factory floor, ship, or retail site.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_storage_services

Premium storage in Azure is designed for high-performance workloads that require low latency and high throughput. It primarily 
uses solid-state drives (SSDs). High Availability: 99.9% uptime SLA when attached to a running VM. Disks can be replicated across 
availability zones for resilience. * Premium storage, is not applicable to Blob Storage. Premium storage is primarily associated with 
Azure managed disks and Azure Files.

File Share is a fully managed cloud file storage service that allows users to create file shares accessible via SMB 
(Server Message Block) and NFS (Network File System) protocols. It enables seamless file sharing across cloud and on-premises 
environments. Azure File Share is ideal for replacing traditional file servers. *Note: A file can be any type of file.

Blob Storage service
A Page Blob in Azure is a type of storage blob designed for random read/write operations, making it ideal for disk storage, 
databases, and virtual machines (VMs). Unlike Block Blobs (which store data in blocks), Page Blobs store data in fixed-size 
pages of 512 bytes each.

Premium block blobs - Storage Tier is the premium storage account type for block blobs and append blobs. It is recommended for 
scenarios with high transaction rates or that use smaller objects or require consistently low storage latency. Blob Storage 
(including Data Lake Storage)

Premium page blobs - performance-optimized storage tier	(Page blobs only)
Offers low latency for data access compared to other tiers, such as hot, cool, and archive which are lower in performance.
Premium page blobs provide High throughput for read and write operations using Solid-State Drive (SSD)-Based Storage.

Azure Blob storage is an object storage solution for the cloud. It can store massive amounts of data, such as text or binary data.
Blob storage can manage thousands of simultaneous uploads, massive amounts of video data, constantly growing log files, and can 
be reached from anywhere with an internet connection.

One advantage of blob storage over disk storage is that it doesn't require developers to think about or manage disks. Data is 
uploaded as blobs, and Azure takes care of the physical storage needs. Blob storage is ideal for:
	Serving images or documents directly to a browser.
	Storing files for distributed access.
	Streaming video and audio.
	Storing data for backup and restore, disaster recovery, and archiving.
	Storing data for analysis by an on-premises or Azure-hosted service.

What are the access tiers for blob storage?
Azure Blob Storage offers the following access tiers to optimize cost and performance based on data usage:

Hot Tier: It has higher storage costs but lower access costs. Designed for frequently accessed or modified data. 

Cool Tier: It has lower storage costs but higher access costs (compared to the hot tier).
Designed for infrequently accessed data that needs to be stored for at least 30 days. 

Cold Tier: It offers lower storage costs but higher access costs. (compared to the cool tier )
Designed for rarely accessed data that requires fast retrieval.  Data must be stored for at least 90 days. 

Archive Tier: It offers the lowest storage costs but the highest access costs. Best for data that is rarely accessed and 
can tolerate a long retrieval latency of hours. Data must be stored for at least 180 days. 

Premium block blobs are optimized for scenarios that require low latency and high throughput, such as media streaming or 
transaction-heavy workloads. Unlike the Hot, Cool, Cold, and Archive tiers, Premium block blobs are designed specifically for 
performance-sensitive applications.

* High throughput refers to the ability to transfer large amounts of data quickly and efficiently over a period of time. It's 
about how much data can be read from or written to the storage per second — typically measured in megabytes per second (MB/s) 
or input/output operations per second (IOPS).

Azure Storage offers different access tiers for your blob storage, helping you store object data in the most cost-effective manner:
	Hot access tier: Optimized for storing data that is accessed frequently (for example, images for your website).
	Cool access tier: Optimized for data that is infrequently accessed and stored for at least 30 days 
	                  (for example, invoices for your customers).
	Cold access tier: Optimized for storing data that is infrequently accessed and stored for at least 90 days.
	Archive access tier: Appropriate for data that is rarely accessed and stored for at least 180 days, with flexible 
	                     latency requirements (for example, long-term backups).

Standard general-purpose v2 - Storage Tier is the standard storage account type for blobs, file shares, queues, and tables. It is 
recommended for most scenarios using Azure Storage. If you want support for network file system (NFS) in Azure Files, use the 
premium file shares account type.
---
Premium file shares - Storage Tier is the premium storage account type for file shares only. Recommended for enterprise or 
high-performance scale applications. Use the Premium file shares account type if you want a storage account that supports both 
Server Message Block (SMB) and NFS file shares. NFS (Network File System) file shares are file storage solutions that enable 
multiple clients to access and share files over a network. It’s not just a basic object blob store like S3 or traditional block blobs.
---
Azure Data Lake Storage (ADLS) is built on top of Blob Storage, but it's not limited to just storing blobs in the traditional sense.
ADLS Gen2 is basically Blob Storage with a hierarchical namespace added on top. This enables file system–like operations (folders, 
directories, permissions at the file level).

You can use ADLS for file-based operations, directory structures, POSIX-style permissions — things you don’t get in standard Blob 
Storage without the hierarchical namespace.
---
Transaction-Optimized Pricing is designed for applications with high transaction rates. Transaction-Optimized Pricing is offered 
in specific Azure regions. Transaction-Optimized Pricing supports local redundancy (LRS) and zone redundancy (ZRS) for data durability.
Transaction-Optimized Pricing is a pricing model designed to reduce costs for workloads that have frequent transactions but require 
lower overall storage capacity. It is designed for workloads with high read/write operations, reducing the per-operation cost 
compared to standard storage pricing. Transaction-Optimized Pricing is ideal for scenarios where frequent access is required, such 
as event-driven applications, message queuing, or IoT telemetry. Transaction-Optimized Pricing works well for blob storage, table 
storage, and queue storage in scenarios where transactions dominate cost rather than raw storage capacity.
Key Advantages of Transaction-Optimized Pricing:
	1) Lower Transaction Costs – Ideal for workloads that require frequent read/write operations, as it reduces per-operation costs.
	2) Cost-Effective for Small Objects – Best for applications that store a large number of small files where transaction costs 
	   would otherwise be high.
---
One of the benefits of using an Azure Storage Account is having a unique namespace in Azure for your data. In order to do this, 
every storage account in Azure must have a unique-in-Azure account name. The combination of the account name and the Azure 
Storage service endpoint forms the endpoints for your storage account. Your storage account name must be unique within Azure. 
No two storage accounts can have the same name.
Blob Storage			https://<storage-account-name>.blob.core.windows.net
Data Lake Storage Gen2	https://<storage-account-name>.dfs.core.windows.net
Azure Files				https://<storage-account-name>.file.core.windows.net
Queue Storage			https://<storage-account-name>.queue.core.windows.net
Table Storage			https://<storage-account-name>.table.core.windows.net

When you create a storage account, you select the primary region for the account. The paired secondary 
region is based on Azure assigned Region Pairs, and can't be changed by the user.

One of the factors that help determine which redundancy option you should choose is whether your application requires read access 
to the replicated data in the secondary region if the primary region becomes unavailable. 

Locally redundant storage (LRS) replicates your data three times within a single data center in the primary region. LRS is the 
lowest-cost redundancy option and offers the least durability compared to other options. LRS protects your data against server 
rack and drive failures.

Zone-redundant storage (ZRS) replicates your Azure Storage data synchronously across three Azure availability 
zones in the primary region. Think Availability-Zone reduntant storage.

Azure Storage offers two options for duplicating your data in a secondary region. There is geo-redundant storage (GRS) and 
geo-zone-redundant storage (GZRS). 

Geo-Redundant Storage (GRS) Stores three copies of your data in the primary region to provide local redundency (3 times within a 
data center) and replicates three additional copies to a secondary region (also 3 times within a data center). The secondary region 
is not accessible for reads unless a failover is initiated. In case of a failure in the primary region, Azure manually fails over 
to the secondary region.

* A variant to Geo-Redundant Storage is Read-Access Geo-Redundant Storage (RA-GRS). It allows read access to the secondary region.

Using Geo-Zone-Redundant Storage (GZRS), data is replicated across multiple availability zones in the primary region (higher 
availability than GRS). Geo-Zone-Redundant Storage replicates three additional copies (LRS) in a secondary region for disaster 
recovery. The secondary region is not accessible for reads unless a failover is triggered.

:654 Prepare for recording *************************************

In the case of a regional outage failure, your data is available to be read in the secondayr region, only if the customer or 
Microsoft initiates a failover from the primary to secondary region. However, if you enable read access to the secondary region, 
your data is always readable in the secondary region. For read access to the secondary region, enable read-access geo-redundant 
storage (RA-GRS) or read-access geo-zone-redundant storage (RA-GZRS).
---
All data written to an Azure storage account is encrypted by the service. Azure Storage provides you with fine-grained control 
over who has access to your data.

The following considerations apply to the different access tiers:
	Hot, cool, and cold access tiers can be set at the account level. The archive access tier isn't available at the account level.
	Hot, cool, cold, and archive tiers can be set at the blob level, during or after upload.
	Data in the cool and cold access tiers can tolerate slightly lower availability, but still requires high durability, 
	retrieval latency, and throughput characteristics similar to hot data. For cool and cold data, a lower availability 
	service-level agreement (SLA) and higher access costs compared to hot data are acceptable trade-offs for lower storage costs.
	Archive storage stores data offline and offers the lowest storage costs, but also the highest costs to rehydrate and access data.

PowerShell cmdlets and Azure CLI can be used to create, mount, and manage Azure file shares as part of the administration of Azure 
applications. You can create and manage Azure file shares using Azure portal and Azure Storage Explorer.

Familiar programmability: Applications running in Azure can access data in the share via file system I/O APIs. Developers can 
therefore use their existing code and skills to migrate existing applications. In addition to System IO APIs, you can use Azure 
Storage Client Libraries or the Azure Storage REST API.

Azure Queue storage is a service for storing large numbers of messages. Once stored, you can access the messages from anywhere 
in the world via authenticated calls using HTTP or HTTPS. A queue can contain as many messages as your storage account has room for 
(potentially millions). Each individual message can be up to 64 KB in size. Queues are commonly used to create a backlog of work 
to process asynchronously.

Queue storage can be combined with compute functions like Azure Functions to take an action when a message is received.
---
Azure Disk storage, or Azure managed disks, are block-level storage volumes managed by Azure for use with Azure VMs.

Azure Table storage stores large amounts of structured  non-relational data. Azure tables are a NoSQL datastore that accepts 
authenticated calls from inside and outside the Azure cloud.
---
Identify Azure data migration options

Azure Migrate is a service that helps you migrate from an on-premises environment to the cloud. Azure Migrate functions as a hub 
to help you manage the assessment and migration of your on-premises datacenter to Azure. Azure Migrate provides the following:
	Unified migration platform: A single portal to start, run, and track your migration to Azure.
	Range of tools: A range of tools for assessment and migration. 
	Assessment and migration: In the Azure Migrate hub, you can assess and migrate your on-premises infrastructure to Azure.

The Azure Migrate hub includes the following tools to help with migration:
 Azure Migrate: Discovery and assessment. Discover and assess on-premises servers running on VMware, Hyper-V, and physical servers 
                in preparation for migration to Azure.
				Server Migration. Migrate VMware VMs, Hyper-V VMs, physical servers, other virtualized servers, and public 
                cloud VMs to Azure.
 Data Migration Assistant: Data Migration Assistant is a stand-alone tool to assess SQL Servers. It helps pinpoint potential 
                           problems blocking migration. It identifies unsupported features and new features that can benefit you 
						   after migration, and the right path for database migration.
 Database Migration Service: Migrate on-premises databases to Azure VMs that are running SQL Server, Azure SQL Database, or 
                             SQL Managed Instances.
 App Service migration assistant: Azure App Service migration assistant is a standalone tool to assess on-premises websites for 
                                  migration to Azure App Service. Use Migration Assistant to migrate .NET and PHP web apps to Azure.
 Data Box: Use Azure Data Box products to move large amounts of offline data to Azure. Data box has a storage capacity of 80 terabytes.
 ---
*** Identify Azure file movement options ***
In addition to large scale migration using services like Azure Migrate and Azure Data Box, Azure also has tools designed to help 
you move or interact with individual files or small file groups.

AzCopy is a command-line utility that you can use to copy blobs or files to or from your storage account. With AzCopy, you can 
upload files, download files, copy files between storage accounts, and even synchronize files. AzCopy can even be configured to 
work with other cloud providers to help move files back and forth between clouds.

Azure AzCopy allows users to automate and streamline data migration tasks. Here are the key use cases and capabilities of AzCopy:
Synchronizing blobs or files with AzCopy is one-direction synchronization. When you synchronize, you designated the source and 
destination, and AzCopy will copy files or blobs in that direction. It doesn't synchronize bi-directionally based on timestamps 
or other metadata

*** Key Features ***
1) Data Transfers to and from Azure Storage:
	Copy files, blobs, and directories to Azure Blob Storage.
	Transfer data to Azure Files (file shares).
	Upload and download to/from Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2.

2) High-Speed Data Transfers: Leverages parallel processing to maximize transfer speed.

3) Cross-Platform Support: Runs on Windows, Linux, and macOS.

4) Resume and Retry:
	Automatically retries failed transfers.
	Supports resuming interrupted transfers.

5) Authenticated Access:
	Works with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) credentials.
	Can use Shared Access Signatures (SAS) or account keys for secure access.

6) Compression and Filtering:
	Compress data during transfer to save bandwidth.
	Include or exclude specific files or directories using wildcard patterns.

7) Scalability: Ideal for large-scale migrations or frequent synchronization tasks.

*** Common Use Cases ***
Data Migration:
	Move on-premises data to Azure Blob Storage or to Azure Files.
	Transfer data between different Azure Storage accounts or regions.

Backup and Restore:
	Backup local data to Azure for disaster recovery.
	Restore data from Azure storage to on-premises systems.

Data Synchronization:
	Sync specific files or folders between a local system and Azure storage.
	Keep datasets up-to-date between storage accounts.

Log Management: Upload server logs, application logs, or diagnostics to Azure Blob Storage for analysis.

Integration with CI/CD Pipelines: Automate storage updates or backups as part of a DevOps workflow.

Archiving: Transfer large datasets to Azure for long-term archival.

*** AzCopy Example Commands *** 
Upload Files to Blob Storage: 
	azcopy copy "/path/to/local/files" "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>"

Download Files from Blob Storage:
	azcopy copy "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>" "/path/to/local/destination"

Synchronize a Directory:
	azcopy sync "/local/directory" "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>"

List Files in a Container:
	azcopy list "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>"

Remove Files from Blob Storage:
	azcopy remove "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>"

*** Features of AzCopy Synchronization ***
Directional Sync:
Source to Destination: Changes from the source are replicated to the destination. This includes uploading new files and deleting 
files at the destination if they no longer exist at the source (if configured).

Incremental Transfers:
Only modified or new files are transferred saving time and bandwidth.

File and Directory Filters:
Sync specific files or exclude certain files using wildcard patterns.

Cross-Environment Support:
	Sync between:
		Local storage and Azure Blob Storage.
		Azure Blob Storage containers.
		Azure Files.

Deletion Options:
By default, AzCopy will not delete files from the destination.
Use the --delete-destination flag to remove files at the destination that are no longer present at the source. 

Monitor Logs: Use AzCopy’s log files to troubleshoot or verify successful transfers.

Use the --dry-run Option. Preview which files will be transferred or deleted without making any changes:
	azcopy sync "/local/directory" "https://<storage_account>.blob.core.windows.net/<container>/<SAS_token>" --dry-run

Authenticate Securely: Prefer Azure AD credentials or SAS tokens for secure access to storage accounts.
Automate with Scripts: Integrate AzCopy sync commands into scheduled tasks or DevOps pipelines for regular updates.	
---
Azure Storage Explorer is a standalone application that simplifies the management of Azure cloud storage resources. It allows 
users to interact with Azure Storage accounts, including blobs, files, queues, tables, and Azure Data Lake Storage entities, 
directly from their desktop. The tool is available on Windows, macOS, and Linux.
---
File shares in Azure are a storage solution provided by Azure Files, a service within the Azure Storage platform. They are fully managed, 
cloud-based file shares that can be accessed via the Server Message Block (SMB) protocol or the Network File System (NFS) protocol. This 
makes them ideal for scenarios where multiple users or applications need access to the same files.

*** Key Features of File Shares ***
Access via Standard Protocols:
	SMB Protocol: Supports Windows, macOS, and Linux systems.
	NFS Protocol: Designed for Linux/UNIX-based systems.

Cross-Platform Compatibility: Azure file shares can be mounted on operating systems like Windows, Linux, and macOS, as well as 
                              accessed programmatically via REST APIs or SDKs.

Integration with Azure Services: File shares can be used as storage for Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) pods, Azure Virtual Machines 
                                 (VMs), and other Azure services.

Hybrid Use Cases:
Use Azure File Sync to cache Azure file shares on on-premises Windows Servers for faster access while leveraging cloud scalability.

Security Features: Supports Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) authentication and role-based access control (RBAC).
	               Data can be encrypted both in transit and at rest.

Scalability: Each file share can scale up to 100 TiB in the premium tier, supporting high throughput and low latency 
             for demanding workloads.

Hybrid Environments: Integrate Azure file shares with on-premises servers using Azure File Sync, enabling fast local access 
                     with cloud backup

Standard File Shares:
	Designed for general-purpose file storage.
	Available in the cool and hot access tiers for cost optimization.

Premium File Shares:
	Provides high-performance, low-latency file storage.
	Ideal for I/O-intensive workloads like databases or media processing.
	Capacity up to 100 TiB.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Tools
Azure Advisor
It analyzes your resource configuration and usage telemetry and then recommends solutions that can help you improve the cost 
effectiveness, performance and security of your Azure resources. Azure Advisor is a recommendation service that provides 
guidance on how to optimize Azure resources. It does not directly integrate with Azure Blueprints, but you can use Advisor 
recommendations to inform your Blueprint designs.
---
Azure Monitor is a comprehensive monitoring solution that helps collect, analyze, and respond to telemetry data from Azure resources, 
applications, and infrastructure. Azure Monitor provides real-time visibility into performance, availability, and operational health.
For Performance Monitoring Azure Monitor collects metrics, logs, and traces from Azure services, applications, and on-premises resources.
Sources include Azure VMs, Azure App Service, Kubernetes, and more. Azure Monitor integrates with tools like Azure Metrics Explorer, 
Log Analytics, and Application Insights.

For Performance Monitoring Azure Monitor tracks CPU, memory, disk, and network usage for VMs and containers. Monitors application 
performance using Application Insights. Alerting & Automation - Azure Monitor detects anomalies and triggers alerts based on custom 
thresholds. Azure Monitor can integrate with Azure Logic Apps, Azure Functions, or ITSM tools for automated responses.

* The ITSM (IT Service Management) tools referred to in the above sentence are platforms used for managing IT services and workflows. 
Azure Monitor integrates with these tools to create work items, automate responses, and streamline incident management.

Log Analytics
Log Analytics is the backend data store for Azure Monitor Insights and many other services.
Uses Kusto Query Language (KQL) to analyze logs for troubleshooting and auditing.
Log Analytics aggregates data from Azure Activity Logs, VM logs, and diagnostics.

Detection patterns in Microsoft Sentinel are typically written using Kusto Query Language (KQL).

Azure Monitor Alerts A proactive way to detect and address issues before they become critical. You can create alerts on any metric 
or log data source in the Azure Monitor data platform. Alert type includes metric, log, activity, service health, high CPU usage,
resource health, smart detection and Prometheus (open-source monitoring and alerting toolkit). Monitor Alerts can trigger actions 
like sending emails, SMS, or invoking Azure Logic Apps, Automation Runbooks or Azure Functions for automated responses.
---
Automation Runbooks are scripts that you run in the cloud (typically Azure Automation) to automate operational tasks, like 
restarting a VM, cleaning up resources, rotating secrets, or patching systems.

Application Insights is a feature of Azure Monitor. It monitors the availability, performance and usage of your web applications.
Application Insights is an extensible Application Performance Management (APM) service for developers and DevOps professionals. 

Service Health is a monitoring service that provides real-time insights into the health of Azure services, regions, and 
resources. It helps organizations stay informed about service issues, planned maintenance, and potential outages.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Virtual_Desktop

Another type of virtual machine is the Azure Virtual Desktop. Azure Virtual Desktop is a desktop and application virtualization 
service that runs on the cloud. Azure Virtual Desktop provides centralized security management for users' desktops with Microsoft 
Entra ID. You can enable multifactor authentication to secure user sign-ins. You can also secure access to data by assigning 
granular role-based access controls (RBACs) to users.
---
Azure Virtual Desktop lets you use Windows 10 or Windows 11 Enterprise multi-session which is the only Windows client-based 
operating systems that enables multiple concurrent users on a single VM. You can think of an Azure network as an extension 
of your on-premises network with resources that link to other Azure resources.
---
*Entra ID, previously known as Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), is a cloud-based identity and access management (IAM) service 
provided by Microsoft. It is designed to help organizations securely manage and authenticate users, devices, and applications 
across various environments, including on-premises, cloud, and hybrid systems. Entra ID helps organizations manage user identities, 
ensuring that employees, partners, and customers can securely access company resources across cloud and on-premises environments.

Entra ID allows for the creation, update, and deletion of user accounts, as well as the management of their attributes, roles, and 
permissions. While traditional AD is commonly used in on-premises environments, Entra ID is typically used in cloud environments to 
manage identities and access for users and applications that reside in the cloud.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Virtual_Networking

Azure virtual networks and virtual subnets enable Azure resources, such as VMs, web apps, and databases, to communicate with each 
other, with users on the internet, and with your on-premises client computers. 

Azure automatically routes traffic between subnets in a virtual network. Therefore, all virtual machines in a virtual network can 
connect to the other virtual machines in the same virtual network. Even if the virtual machines are on separate subnets within the 
virtual network, they can still communicate with each other.

Azure virtual networks provide the following key networking capabilities: Isolation and segmentation, Internet communications, 
Communicate between Azure resources, Communicate with on-premises resources, network traffic routing, network traffic filtering, 
Connecting virtual networks.

Azure virtual networking supports both public and private endpoints to enable communication between external or internal resources 
with other internal resources. Public endpoints have a public IP address and can be accessed from anywhere in the world.
Private endpoints exist within a virtual network and have a private IP address from within the address space of that virtual network.

Azure virtual network(VNet) allows you to create multiple isolated virtual networks. When you set up a virtual network, you define a 
private IP address space that is in the private IP address range. The private IP range only exists within the virtual network and 
isn't internet routable. You can divide the private IP address space into subnets and allocate part of the defined address space 
to each named subnet. A subnet is defined by an IP address range, which is a subset of the IP address space of a larger network.

* You can not directly place an Azure database inside a Virtual Network (VNet) — but you can restrict access to it from a VNet, 
which is often what people actually mean. 

* A subnet, short for subnetwork, is a logical subdivision of a larger network. It is used to partition a single network into 
smaller, more manageable segments. Subnets improve network performance, enhance security, and allow better control of traffic 
flow within a network. A subnet is defined by an IP address range, which is a subset of the IP address space of a larger network.

For name resolution, you can use the name resolution service built into Azure. You also can configure the virtual network to use 
either an internal or an external DNS server. You can enable incoming connections from the internet by assigning a public IP 
address to an Azure resource, or putting the resource behind a public load balancer.

Virtual networks can connect not only VMs but other Azure resources, such as the App Service Environment for Power Apps, Azure 
Kubernetes Service, and Azure virtual machine scale sets. Service endpoints can connect to other Azure resource types, such as 
Azure SQL databases and storage accounts.

* The App Service Environment (ASE) for Power Apps in Azure provides a fully isolated and dedicated environment for securely 
running Power Apps and related Azure App Service apps at scale(ability to handle increased demand or workload through horizontal
and vertical scaling).

Azure virtual networks enable you to link resources together in your on-premises environment and within your Azure subscription.
There are three mechanisms for you to achieve this connectivity:
1) Point-to-site virtual private network connections are from a computer outside your organization back into your corporate network. 
   In this case, the client computer initiates an encrypted VPN connection to connect to the Azure virtual network.
   *Connects individual devices (e.g., laptops) to a network.

2) Site-to-site virtual private networks link your on-premises VPN device or gateway to the Azure VPN gateway in a virtual network. 
In effect, the devices in Azure can appear as being on the local network. The connection is encrypted and works over the internet.
*Connects entire networks (e.g., branch offices) to each other over the internet.

3) Azure ExpressRoute provides a dedicated private connectivity to Azure that doesn't travel over the internet. ExpressRoute is 
useful for environments where you need greater bandwidth and even higher levels of security. Azure ExpressRoute communicates over 
dedicated, private network connections provided by a third-party connectivity provider or a colocation(data center) facility. 
The medium used is typically high-speed fiber-optic cables within the connectivity provider's network and Microsoft's global 
backbone network.
---
By default, Azure routes traffic between subnets on any connected virtual networks, on-premises networks, and the internet. You 
also can control routing and override those settings, as follows:
1) Route tables allow you to define rules about how traffic should be directed. You can create custom route tables that control 
   how packets are routed between subnets.

2) Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) works with Azure VPN gateways, Azure Route Server, or Azure ExpressRoute to propagate 
   on-premises BGP routes to Azure virtual networks.

Azure virtual networks enable you to filter network traffic between subnets by using the following approaches:
1) Azure Network Security Groups (NSGs) allow organizations to control network traffic by defining inbound and outbound security 
rules. NSGs act as a basic network-level firewall, providing filtering capabilities based on source and destination IP addresses, 
port numbers, and protocols. By configuring NSGs, the organization can manage access to the virtual machines by allowing or denying 
specific ports and protocols, ensuring security and control over the network traffic flow.

2) Network virtual appliances are specialized VMs that can be compared to a hardened network appliance. A network virtual 
appliance carries out a particular network function, such as running a firewall or performing wide area network (WAN) optimization.
---
Connect virtual networks
You can link virtual networks together by using virtual network peering. Peering allows two virtual networks to connect directly 
to each other. Network traffic between peered networks is private, and travels on the Microsoft backbone network, never entering 
the public internet. Peering enables resources in each virtual network to communicate with each other. These virtual networks 
can be in separate regions. This feature allows you to create a global interconnected network through Azure.

A private endpoint is a private IP address within your VNet that connects to a PaaS service (like Blob Storage, SQL Database, Key 
Vault, etc.) over the Microsoft backbone network, not the public internet.

A public endpoint is an IP (either shared or dedicated) that allows access to an Azure service over the public internet.

Connecting a site-to-site VPN gateway to a virtual network allows individual devices to connect securely to the virtual network over the
internet. This is useful for remote workers or branch offices that need secure access to resources in the virtual network.
A virtual network gateway sends encrypted traffic between an Azure VNET and an on-premises location over the internet. It is the 
core component of a hybrid cloud network.

User-defined routes(UDR) allow you to control the routing tables between subnets within a virtual network or between virtual 
networks. This allows for greater control over network traffic flow.
---
* Dynamic routing automatically adjusts network paths based on changes in the network topology, making it a versatile and 
powerful method for managing network traffic. Routers exchange routing information in real time using protocols like BGP. 
This allows the network to automatically adapt to changes such as link failures or new routes.

With Dynamic routing, new routers or subnets can be added without requiring a complete reconfiguration of the routing tables.
Dynamic Routing adjusts to congestion by redistributing traffic to less congested paths and chooses the best route based on 
real-time metrics such as bandwidth, latency, or hop count.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Virtual_VPNs

A virtual private network (VPN) uses an encrypted tunnel within another network. VPNs are typically deployed to connect two or 
more trusted private networks to one another over an untrusted network (typically the public internet). Traffic is encrypted while 
traveling over the untrusted network to prevent eavesdropping or other attacks. VPNs can enable networks to safely and securely 
share sensitive information.

Policy-based VPNs use static routing rules (IPsec policies) to define what traffic should pass through the VPN tunnel.
Route-based VPNs use routing tables (forwarding rules) to direct traffic through the VPN tunnel.
---
Route-based VPNs can configure active-active connections for high availability.

If your on-premises device only supports policy-based VPNs, a policy-based VPN gateway may be required, though it has limited 
functionality compared to route-based VPNs.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_VPN_Gateways

VPN gateways are relevant for businesses because they provide secure access to company resources from remote locations. They 
facilitate encrypted connections between a company's private network and remote users or sites, ensuring data security and 
integrity. This allows employees to work safely from anywhere, supports secure interoffice communications, and protects sensitive 
business data from eavesdropping or interception over public networks.

An Azure VPN Gateway is a specific type of network gateway in Azure that provides secure, encrypted connections between Azure 
virtual networks (VNets) and on-premises networks or other Azure VNets. Azure VPN Gateway enables hybrid cloud and multi-cloud 
connectivity through Virtual Private Network (VPN) technology.

An Azure VPN gateway is a type of virtual network gateway. Azure VPN Gateway instances are deployed in a dedicated subnet of 
the virtual network and enable the following connectivity:
	Connect on-premises datacenters to virtual networks through a site-to-site connection.
	Connect individual devices to virtual networks through a point-to-site connection.
	Connect virtual networks to other virtual networks through a network-to-network connection.

In Azure Virtual Networks (VNet), a Point-to-Site (P2S) VPN connection allows an individual client device (such as a laptop or 
workstation) to securely connect to an Azure VNet over the internet. It is commonly used when you need secure remote access to 
Azure resources without requiring a dedicated site-to-site VPN or ExpressRoute.

All data transfer that is within a VPN gateway is encrypted inside a private tunnel as it crosses the internet. You can deploy only one 
VPN gateway in each virtual network. However, you can use one gateway to connect to multiple locations, which includes other 
virtual networks or on-premises datacenters.

When setting up a VPN gateway, you must specify the type of VPN which can be either policy-based or route-based. Policy-based VPNs and 
route-based VPNs are two types of configurations used to establish VPN connections. These configurations determine how traffic is managed 
and routed between the on-premises network and Azure.

Use a route-based VPN gateway for hybrid cloud connectivity, interconnecting VNets, dynamic routing (BGP), multi-site 
configurations, and failover solutions for ExpressRoute. It is the preferred option for modern, scalable, and flexible 
networking needs in Azure.

Use a route-based VPN gateway if you need any of the following types of connectivity:
	VNet-to-VNet - secure communication between Azure Virtual Networks (VNets), even if they are in different regions or subscriptions.
	Use Cases:
		Connecting microservices hosted in separate VNets.
		Facilitating resource segmentation by networking VNets securely.
	
	Point-to-site connections - Allows individual devices or remote users to securely connect to an Azure Virtual Network.
	Use Cases:
		Providing remote workers secure access to Azure-hosted resources.
		Combining with Site-to-Site(S2S) for comprehensive remote and on-premises access.
	
	Multisite connections - Connects multiple on-premises locations to a single Azure Virtual Network.
	Use Cases:
		Centralizing connectivity for multiple branch offices.
		Configuring a hub-and-spoke network topology.
	
	Dynamic Routing Supports Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) for dynamic routing, which simplifies complex routing configurations.
	Use Cases:
		Scenarios where the network topology changes frequently, and dynamic route updates are required.
		Hybrid networks with on-premises equipment supporting BGP.

	Coexistence with an Azure ExpressRoute gateway - Enables a VPN failover for Azure ExpressRoute connections.
	Use Cases:
		Providing redundancy to ensure connectivity if the ExpressRoute circuit fails.
		Connecting Azure resources in regions or subscriptions not linked to the primary ExpressRoute.

	Site-to-Site (S2S) Connections - secure, always-on connectivity between an on-premises network and an Azure virtual network.

High-Availability Scenarios for Azure VPN Gateways:
	Active/Standby:
	Default configuration with two VPN gateway instances (one active, one standby).
	Standby takes over during maintenance or disruptions automatically.	
		
	ExpressRoute Failover:
	Configures a VPN gateway as a backup for ExpressRoute connections.
	Uses the public internet as an alternative connectivity path during ExpressRoute outages caused by physical or 
	location-wide failures.
	
	Zone-Redundant Gateways:
	Deploys VPN gateways across availability zones for added resiliency and scalability.
	Protects against zone-level failures by separating gateways physically and logically.
	Requires specific SKUs and Standard public IP addresses instead of Basic ones.
	These options provide varying levels of redundancy and fault tolerance to ensure secure and reliable connectivity 
	for Azure networks.

A gateway is like a bridge, enabling communication and connectivity between networks.
A firewall is like a guard, monitoring and controlling traffic to ensure security.
Both can complement each other in network setups, with gateways managing connectivity and firewalls enforcing security.
Most VPN setups require a gateway or equivalent functionality.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Billing_Pricing


---------------------------------------------------------------
Cloud_Concepts

Scalability is a system’s ability to handle increasing workloads by adding resources (either horizontally by adding more instances 
or vertically by upgrading hardware). It is usually planned and manual, meaning resources are provisioned in advance to accommodate growth.

Elasticity is the system's ability to automatically scale resources up or down based on demand. It is dynamic and automated, ensuring 
that the system adjusts in real-time to workload fluctuations. Using elasticity in cloud computing, an IT person can increase resource 
capacity—often literally by pushing a button (or triggering an API, CLI command, or autoscale policy).

Agility refers to the ability of an organization to quickly and efficiently adapt to changes in demand, technology, or market conditions 
using cloud-based resources and services. 

Key Difference:
Scalability is about long-term capacity planning. Elasticity is about real-time resource adjustment based on demand.
Azure VM Scale Sets and Azure Functions provide elasticity, while services like Azure SQL Database Hyperscale offers scalability.

The Shared Responsibility Model in cloud computing defines the division of responsibilities between the cloud service provider and the
customer. In this model, the cloud provider is responsible for the security of the cloud infrastructure, while the customer is
responsible for securing their applications and data within the cloud. This model emphasizes that both parties have distinct roles
in ensuring security and compliance in the cloud environment.

A public cloud is a model of cloud computing where services and resources are provided by third-party providers over the internet and 
are shared among multiple customers. Providers like Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services (AWS), and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) host 
these services in their data centers, offering a wide range of capabilities such as virtual machines, storage, databases, networking, 
and AI tools.

The Azure public cloud is a shared, scalable computing environment where resources like compute, storage, and networking are provided 
on-demand over the internet, and customers only pay for what they use.

A private cloud can be a customers own data center. Unlike public clouds, where resources are shared among multiple users, a private 
cloud provides exclusive access to computing resources, either hosted on-premises or in a dedicated Azure environment. Azure doesn’t 
offer a “private cloud” in the same way you'd build one on-prem. Instead,a private cloud in Azure typically refers to services or 
architectures that mimic private cloud characteristics. Azure services that enable private cloud setups are Azure Stack and Azure
VMWare.

A private cloud is a cloud computing environment that is exclusively used by a single organization. It can be hosted on-premises.

A hybrid cloud is a computing environment that combines public cloud and private cloud (or on-premises infrastructure), allowing 
data and applications to move between them seamlessly.

A multi-cloud strategy involves using multiple cloud service providers to meet different business needs.

Economies of scale refer to the ability to do things more efficeintly or at a lower cost per unit when operting at a larger scale.
It is cost advantages that a business gains as it increases production or operations.

The cloud increases OpEx spending and rduces CapEx spending.

Consumption based model is Pay for what you use.
Fixed pricing model is Pay for what you reserve whether you use it or not. Ensures predictable costs.

Serverless Arhitcture is hosted as pay-as-you-go. Resources are stateless, servers ephemeral(short life) and often event-driven.

Governance in Azure refers to the set of tools, policies, and practices that help organizations manage their cloud resources 
effectively while ensuring compliance, security, and cost optimization.

Agility is the speed and flexibility with which an organization can respond to changes in the market or business environment.

Fault tolerance generally refers to component level failures.
Disater recovery generally refers to service or site level failures.
Reliablity consists of two principles: Resileincy (make a come back) and availability.
Predictability is the ability to forecast performance and costs accurately. ex: reserving resources for predictable workloads.

The Cloud Adoption Framework is to help organizations create and implement the business and techology strategies to succeed in Azure.

In a PaaS cloud model, the customer is responsible for deploying and managing applications. PaaS lets developers create applications 
using built-in tools and services without worrying about the underlying infrastructure. Cloud features such as scalability, 
high-availability and multi-tenancy are built-in.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Compute_Networking_Services

VMs provide infrastructure as a service (IaaS). You can create and provision a VM in minutes when you select a preconfigured VM image.

You can group VMs together to provide high availability, scalability, and redundancy. Azure can also manage the grouping of VMs 
for you with features such as scale sets and availability sets. An application might need to handle fluctuations in demand. Shutting 
down VMs when you don't need them or quickly starting them up to meet a sudden increase in demand means you pay only for the 
resources you use. 

Virtual machine scale sets let you create and manage a group of identical, load-balanced VMs. Scale sets allow you to centrally 
manage, configure, and update a large number of VMs in minutes. The number of VM instances can automatically increase or decrease 
in response to demand, or you can set it to scale based on a defined schedule. Virtual machine scale sets also automatically deploy 
a load balancer to make sure that your resources are being used efficiently. With virtual machine scale sets, you can build 
large-scale services for areas such as compute, big data, and container workloads.

Virtual Machine Scale Sets work by defining a group of virtual machines that share a common configuration and that can be treated 
as a single entity for scaling and management purposes. You can define the minimum and maximum number of virtual machines in the 
scale set, as well as the rules for scaling up and down based on demand.
---
Virtual machine availability sets are another tool to help you build a more resilient, highly available environment. Availability 
sets are designed to ensure that VMs stagger updates and have varied power and network connectivity, preventing you from losing 
all your VMs with a single network or power failure.

Availability Sets accomplish these objectives by grouping VMs in two ways: Update Domain and Fault Domain.

Update domain: 
The update domain groups VMs that can be rebooted at the same time. This setup allows you to apply updates while 
knowing that only one update domain grouping is offline at a time. All of the machines in one update domain update at the same time. 
An update group going through the update process is given a 30-minute time to recover before maintenance on the next update domain 
starts.

Fault domain: fault domain is a logical group of hardware that shares a common single point of failure. It is used to enhance the 
availability and reliability of resources by distributing them across different fault domains, ensuring that a single hardware 
failure does not affect all instances of a resource.

The fault domain groups your VMs by common power source and network switch. By default, an Availability Set splits 
your VMs across up to three fault domains. This helps protect against a physical power or networking failure by having VMs in 
different fault domains (thus being connected to different power and networking resources) within the same data center. There’s 
no additional cost for configuring an availability set. You only pay for the VM instances you create.
---
An organization can extend the capabilities of its own on-premises network by creating a virtual network in Azure and adding VMs 
to that virtual network. As with running certain types of applications in the cloud and extending an on-premises network to the 
cloud, you can get significant cost savings by using an IaaS-based approach to disaster recovery. If a primary datacenter fails, 
you can create VMs running on Azure to run your critical applications and then shut them down when the primary datacenter becomes 
operational again.

VMs are also an excellent choice when you move from a physical server to the cloud (also known as lift and shift). You can create 
an image of the physical server and host it within a VM with little or no changes. Just like a physical on-premises server, you 
must maintain the VM: you’re responsible for maintaining the installed OS and software.

When you provision a VM, you’ll also have the chance to pick the resources that are associated with that VM, including:
	Size (purpose, number of processor cores, and amount of RAM)
	Storage disks (hard disk drives, solid state drives, etc.)
	Networking (virtual network, public IP address, and port configuration)

Azure Status displays global service health information across all Azure regions. Has Integration with Azure Monitor: Can be 
configured to send alerts to teams via email, SMS, or ITSM tools like ServiceNow.
---
By creating an Azure Files Share the company can easily map a network drive from their windows machines to the Azure Storage Account.
Remember that files are not necessarily human readable files.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Service_Level_Agreements

Service-level agreements, (SLAs), formally outline all performance, availability, and support expectations between the cloud service 
provider and the organization. Guaranteeing expected levels of service can be challenging when dealing with the integration of different 
cloud and on-premises systems.

1) Availability: Specifies the percentage of time a service is expected to be operational.

Example: A 99.9% SLA means the service is guaranteed to be available 99.9% of the time in a given billing month.
Downtime exceeding the SLA could result in a service credit for customers.

2) Performance Targets: May include metrics like latency, throughput, and other performance parameters.

3) Service Credits: If Azure fails to meet its SLA commitments, customers may receive financial compensation in the form of credits 
based on the service's monthly billing.

4) Scope: SLAs typically apply to services deployed in production environments and may not cover preview or free-tier offerings.

5) Exclusions: SLAs usually exclude issues caused by:
	Customer misconfigurations.
	External attacks (e.g., denial of service).
	Scheduled maintenance.
	Events beyond Azure's reasonable control (e.g., natural disasters).

6) Examples of Azure SLAs:
	Virtual Machines: Single Instance VM and VMs in an Availability Set.

7) Practical Uses:
	Service Planning: Helps customers choose services based on criticality and reliability.
	Compliance: Ensures services align with organizational SLAs or regulatory requirements.
	Monitoring: Encourages regular tracking of performance against SLA guarantees.
---
Azure SLAs can apply to applications running on Platform as a Service (PaaS). However, the SLA depends on the specific Azure PaaS 
services used to build and host the application. These SLAs guarantee the availability, performance, and reliability of the 
underlying Azure services that support the application.

Key Points for PaaS SLAs:
SLA Coverage: Azure provides SLAs for most PaaS services like:
	Azure App Service: Web apps, API apps, and mobile apps.
	Azure SQL Database: Managed relational database service.
	Azure Functions: Serverless compute.
	Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS): Managed Kubernetes.
	Azure Logic Apps: Workflow automation.

Composite SLA: The overall SLA for an application using multiple PaaS services is calculated as a composite SLA. This combines the 
SLAs of all individual services the application depends on.

Custom Logic: The application logic and code deployed on a PaaS service are not covered by the Azure SLA. Azure only guarantees 
the availability and performance of the PaaS service itself.

Redundancy and Best Practices: To meet SLA guarantees:

Use High Availability (HA) features like multiple regions(GEO-Redundancy) or Availability Sets, Availability Zones and Load 
Balancers. Implement resiliency patterns such as retries, caching, and failovers.
* In Azure, failovers refer to the process of automatically or manually transferring workloads, services, or data to a secondary 
system or region when the primary system becomes unavailable. Failovers are a critical part of ensuring high availability, disaster 
recovery, and business continuity in cloud-based solutions.

Service-Specific SLAs:
App Service:
99.95% availability for apps deployed to two or more instances in the same region.
Azure Functions:
99.95% availability in a consumption plan.
Azure SQL Database:
99.99% availability for all service tiers.
How SLAs Benefit PaaS Applications:
Predictable Performance: Ensures the hosted application runs reliably and meets business expectations.
Downtime Management: Provides clarity on acceptable downtime and remedies (e.g., service credits).
Application Architecture: Encourages developers to design robust, highly available applications by leveraging Azure features.
Important Considerations:
Non-Covered Scenarios: SLAs do not account for:
Application bugs or failures in your code.
Misconfigurations of the PaaS services.
Service Dependencies: Always review the SLAs of all services used by your application for a comprehensive understanding.
Using PaaS services with Azure's SLAs allows you to offload infrastructure management while ensuring reliable performance for your applications.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Azure_Cost_Management

Azure Cost Management is a suite of tools that help you analyze, manage, and optimize costs. It provides a view of your spending 
and helps you manage your budget effectively. Used after deployment to track costs and optimize spending.
Key features include:
  Cost Analysis: View and analyze your spending patterns in the Azure portal, Microsoft 365 admin center, or Power BI.
  Budgets and Alerts: Set budgets and configure alerts for anomalies, reservation utilization, and scheduled reports.
  Cost Allocation: Use cost allocation rules to split shared costs and enable tag inheritance.
  Automation: Export data to automate business processes or integrate cost management into external tools.
  Optimization: Receive recommendations to save costs, such as using savings plans and managing reservations.

Resource Tags
Resources within a resource group do not automatically inherit the tags assigned to the resource group. Tags must be explicitly 
applied to each individual resource if you want them to have the same metadata. How to Apply Tags to Resources:
1) Manual Tagging: Assign tags directly to each resource through the Azure portal.
2) Azure Policy: Use a policy to enforce tag inheritance, ensuring that all resources within a resource group receive the same tags.
3) Automation: Implement scripts using Azure CLI or PowerShell to apply tags to newly created resources.

Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) Calculator
The TCO Calculator is a tool that helps you estimate the cost savings you can achieve by migrating your workloads to Azure. It 
compares the costs of running your applications on-premises with the costs of running them on Azure over time, providing a clear 
picture of potential savings. Key features include:
  Cost Comparison: Compare the total cost of ownership of on-premises infrastructure with Azure cloud services.
  Customization: Input your specific data to get a tailored cost analysis.
  Savings Estimation: Estimate the cost savings over different periods of time (e.g., 3, 5, or 7 years).
  ROI Calculation: Calculate the return on investment for your migration to Azure.

Azure Pricing Calculator:
	Estimates costs before deploying resources.
	Helps plan spending based on expected workloads.
	Provides a detailed breakdown of costs for various Azure services.
	Allows you to customize configurations and options to get accurate estimates.

Pricing Calculator is an interactive tool that helps you estimate the costs of Azure services based on your specific usage patterns.
You can select different Azure services, configure their settings, and see how changes affect your estimated costs. Choose regions,
services, options and configurations to get a detailed cost estimate. The Pricing Calculator would be used before deploying resources 
to understand potential costs.

These tools are designed to help you make informed decisions about your cloud investments and optimize your spending.

Azure Hybrid Use Benefit (AHUB) is a licensing perk from Microsoft that lets you use your existing on-premises Windows Server 
or SQL Server licenses with Software Assurance (SA) to save money when running those workloads in Azure.

Spot Pricing - Access unused compute capacity at discounted rates. Spot VMs are ideal for workloads that can tolerate interruptions,
such as batch processing, development, and testing. They can be evicted when Azure needs the capacity back. Provided only for VMs.

* An Spot VM is a deeply discounted VM that lets you use unused Azure compute capacity, but with no guarantee that it will stay running.
Not available in all regions and sizes.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Questions_

Q: What is the difference between durability and fault tolerance?
A: Durability refers to the ability of a system to ensure that data remains intact and accessible over time, even in the face of 
hardware failures, network issues, or other disruptions. In Azure, durability is achieved through data replication and redundancy. 
For example, Azure Storage replicates data across multiple locations to protect against data loss.

Fault tolerance, on the other hand, refers to the ability of a system to continue operating properly in the event of the failure of 
some of its components. This means that even if a part of the system fails, the overall system remains functional. Fault tolerance 
is achieved through techniques such as redundancy, failover mechanisms, and load balancing.

In summary, durability ensures that data is preserved and available over time, while fault tolerance ensures that the system 
continues to operate despite failures. Both are essential for building reliable and resilient cloud applications.

Q: How is high availability different from fault tolerance?
A: Both High Availability (HA) and Fault Tolerance (FT) aim to improve reliability, but they differ in how they handle failures and 
ensure uptime. Availability aims to minimize downtime and reduce service interruptions through redundancy and failover mechanisms.
Fault Tolerance ensures continuous operation with zero downtime, even if a failure occurs.

In practice, most Azure services focus on High Availability rather than true Fault Tolerance, as Fault Tolerance is often too 
costly and complex for most applications.

HA - Uses redundancy, load balancing, failover mechanisms (e.g., Availability Zones, Auto-Scaling).
	 Cost is lower than FT – fewer redundant resources; designed for quick recovery.

FT - Requires fully redundant systems running in parallel, often with real-time state replication.
	 Cost is higher – requires full duplication of resources for seamless failover.
	 Fault tolerance can be set up across Azure regions to ensure high availability and disaster recovery. There are several 
	 multi-region strategies you can use to enhance resilience:

Q: Does Load Balancing automatically scale when a demand for resources increases above capacity?
A: No, Load Balancing itself does not automatically scale resources when demand increases. Load balancers distribute traffic 
across available resources, but Azure Auto-Scaling is a separate feature that must be configured alongside load balancing. 
Autoscaling dynamically adjusts the number of resources, such as virtual machines or containers, based on traffic patterns and 
predefined rules. The load balancer then distributes incoming traffic across these resources to prevent overload and maintain 
efficiency.

Q:
A:

Q:
A:

Q:
A:

---------------------------------------------------------------
Missed_Questions
Which Azure Virtual Machine feature staggers updates across VMs based on their update domain and fault domain? Availability Sets.

Which azure service should be used to correlate events from multiple Azure resources in a central repository? 
Monitor Logs + Log Analytics. *If one thing correlates with another, there is a close similarity or connection between them, 
often because one thing causes the other.

What protects against datacenter-level failures? Availability Zones. 

---------------------------------------------------------------
Random_Notes

The Cloud Adoption Framework (CAF) is end-to-end guidance for organizations moving to the cloud — especially Azure. It’s not a 
tool or a service, but a structured set of best practices, documentation, and tools to help you:
1) Plan your cloud journey 2) Migrate or build new workloads 3) Govern and secure your cloud environment 4) Manage operations post-deployment

Functions can be either stateless or stateful. When they're stateless (the default), they behave as if they restart every time they 
respond to a new event. When they're stateful (called Durable Functions), a context is passed through the function to track prior activity.

*The following 3 services associate with Azure Blueprints?

*Usage telemetry in Azure refers to the collection, monitoring, and analysis of data about how users interact with applications, 
services, or infrastructure. This telemetry helps track performance, detect issues, and optimize resource utilization.

Azure Blueprints help organizations define, deploy, and manage cloud environments in a repeatable and consistent manner. They are 
used to orchestrate resources, policies, and security controls across multiple subscriptions while ensuring compliance with 
organizational standards. Azure Blueprints ensures that every new Azure deployment follows predefined security, compliance, and 
operational guidelines. Ideal for organizations with strict regulatory requirements (e.g., ISO 27001, HIPAA, FedRAMP). Azure 
Blueprints Automates Infrastructure Deployment.

The Blueprint Definition is the overall template — it defines what resources, policies, and configurations will be deployed.
Artifacts are the actual building blocks that define the infrastructure and configuration. They support IaC by letting you 
declaratively define:
	ARM templates (or Bicep files) — for deploying actual resources like VMs, VNets, storage accounts(infrastructure as code).
	Policy assignments — to enforce governance (e.g., naming standards, allowed regions).
	Role assignments — to assign RBAC roles to users/groups.
	Resource groups — as containers for resources.

ARM Templates
Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templates define the infrastructure and configuration of Azure resources in a repeatable way. You can use 
ARM templates to create and manage resources as part of an Azure Blueprint.

Azure RBAC is used to manage user access to Azure resources. You can use RBAC as part of an Azure Blueprint to assign roles and permissions 
to users or groups for specific resources.
---
Microsoft Sentinel
Sentinel is a cloud-native SIEM and SOAR solution for threat detection, investigation, and automated response.
Microsoft Sentinel (formerly Azure Sentinel) is a cloud-native Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) and Security 
Orchestration Automated Response (SOAR) solution. It helps organizations detect, investigate, and respond to security threats 
across their entire environment using AI and automation.

* SIEM → Security Information and Event Management. SOAR → Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response 

Sentinel uses playbooks for automating responses to detected security threats and incidents.
A playbook is a collection of these remediation actions that can be run from Sentinel as a routine. A playbook can help 
automate and orchestrate your threat response; A playbook can be run manually or set to run automatically in response to 
specific alerts or incidents, when triggered by an analytics rule or an automation rule.

* An analytics rule is designed to detect security threats based on log data and generate alerts or incidents. An example of an 
analytics rule is a rule that detects failed login attempts exceeding 10 attempts in 5 minutes from the same IP address. When 
an analytics rule is triggered it will generate an alert or incident, which it turn will trigger a playbook to respond. 
Analytics Rules use detection patterns to scan logs continuously.

* An automation rule is used to automatically trigger actions based on incidents rather than detection patterns. An automation 
rule automatically assigns high-severity incidents to a security analyst and runs a playbook. The automation rule helps in 
managing incidents efficiently without manual intervention.

* A detection pattern is a predefined logic or set of conditions used to identify potential security threats, anomalies, or 
suspicious activities in log data. In Azure Sentinel, detection patterns are used in analytics rules to monitor data sources and 
trigger alerts when certain criteria are met.
	Key Characteristics of a Detection Pattern
	Defined Conditions - A specific set of rules based on log data.
	Trigger Mechanism  - If the conditions are met, an alert or incident is generated.
	Based on Log Queries - Often written in Kusto Query Language (KQL) to scan security logs.
---
Azure DevOps
Collaborate on software development through source control, work tracking, and continuous integration and delivery, both 
on-premises and in the cloud!

Azure Automation
Azure Automation is a cloud-based automation service for managing and deploying Azure resources. Azure Automation is designed to 
simplify and streamline the management of your IT infrastructure. It helps automate repetitive, time-consuming tasks, ensuring 
consistency and reducing the risk of errors. Azure Automation is ideal for tasks like provisioning resources, managing updates, 
enforcing compliance, and orchestrating complex workflows. Manage resources across Azure, on-premises, and other cloud environments.

Azure Automation provides the following key features:
	Process Automation - Automate manual, repetitive tasks using runbooks, PowerShell, Python, or Graphical workflows.
	Configuration Management - Maintain consistent configurations across your environment.
	Update Management - Manage updates and patches for Windows and Linux VMs.
	Change Tracking - Monitor changes to resources and track configuration drift.
	Inventory Management - Track and manage software and hardware assets.
	Compliance - Enforce security and compliance policies through automated workflows.
---
Azure Cost Management
Azure Cost Management is a suite of tools designed to help organizations analyze, monitor, and optimize their cloud spending. It 
provides insights into your Azure usage and costs, enabling you to make informed decisions and manage your budget effectively.
It ensures cost efficiency by providing insights, budgets, and recommendations to help control and reduce expenses.

Resource Locks
In the Azure portal, you can set resource locks to prevent accidental deletion or modification of critical resources. The lock 
levels are: CanNotDelete - Authorized users can read and modify the resource, but they cannot delete it.
			ReadOnly - Authorized users can only read the resource; they cannot modify or delete it.

High Availability
Focuses on minimizing downtime within a single region by using Availability Sets, Availability Zones, and Load Balancers. However, 
it does not guarantee recovery from an entire region failure. To protect against full region failure, organizations typically 
implement disaster recovery (DR) strategies.
---
Disaster Recovery
Disaster Recovery (DR) in Azure refers to the strategies, services, and tools you use to keep your applications and data available 
during major failures — such as outages, data center issues, cyberattacks, or natural disasters. To protect against full region 
failure, organizations typically implement disaster recovery (DR) strategies, such as:
	Geo-redundancy: Replicating data and services across multiple regions.
	Failover to another region: Using Azure Site Recovery or similar solutions.
	Backup and restore plans: Ensuring critical data is stored in a separate location.

Azure Site Recovery	- Primary DR service — replicates VMs (Azure or on-prem) to a secondary region for failover
Azure Backup		- Long-term data protection, snapshots, and recovery of files, disks, or full machines
Geo-redundant storage (GRS)	- Automatically replicates data across regions for durability
Availability Zones	- Protects against data center-level failures within a region
Traffic Manager / Front Door - Distributes and redirects traffic to healthy regions during failover
Azure BCDR Blueprint - Microsoft’s recommended design pattern for business continuity and disaster recovery
---
Resiliency
Resiliency is a broader term than Disaster Recovery that includes both High Availability and Disaster Recovery, ensuring an application 
can recover from disruptions at various levels.

Azure Application Gateway
Azure Application Gateway (AAG) is a Layer 7 (HTTP/HTTPS) load balancer that manages web traffic to your applications. It provides 
intelligent routing, security, and scalability for web applications deployed in Azure. It has a Web Application Firewall (WAF) that 
Protects against web attacks like SQL injection and cross-site scripting (XSS). It has Session Affinity (Cookie-Based) that ensures 
users maintain sessions with the same backend server. Azure Application Gateway encrypts traffic from client to gateway and from 
gateway to backend. * Note that the Azure Load Balancer does not have URL-Based routing and a firewall.

Azure AD Connect
Azure AD Connect is a tool that allows organizations to synchronize their on-premises Active Directory (AD) infrastructure 
with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). It enables a seamless and secure identity synchronization and authentication experience for 
users across on-premises and cloud environments.

Azure Databricks (Analytics for Big Data processing and Machine Learning))
Azure Databricks is a fast, scalable, and collaborative Apache Spark-based analytics platform designed for big data processing, 
machine learning, and AI workloads. It is optimized for Azure cloud, integrating seamlessly with services like Azure Data Lake, 
Azure Synapse, and Power BI. It is the only option that can host machine learning workloads.

Azure Synapse Analytics (Analytics service for Big Data and Data Warehousing)
Azure Synapse Analytics is a comprehensive analytics service that combines big data and data warehousing into a unified platform. 
It enables organizations to ingest, prepare, manage, and analyze data for business intelligence and machine learning purposes.
* Big data refers to extremely large and complex datasets that traditional data processing tools cannot efficiently handle.
* Data warehousing is the process of collecting, storing, and managing data from various sources to support business intelligence.

Azure Logic Apps (Workflow Automation and Orchestration)
Azure Logic Apps is a cloud service that helps you schedule, automate, and orchestrate tasks, business processes, and workflows when 
you need to integrate apps, data, systems, and services across enterprises or organizations. It is a workflow automation tool.
* Similar to Azure Functions, but Logic Apps is more focused on integrating and automating workflows between different services 
and applications.
*Also similar to MS Power Automate, but Power Automate is more user-friendly and designed for business users\Citizen Developers.

Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN). 
Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN) is a globally distributed network of servers that helps deliver content faster and more reliably by 
caching content closer to users. Azure Content Delivery Network enhances performance, reduces latency, and optimizes bandwidth usage for 
web applications, media streaming, and APIs.
---
Event Hubs and Event Grid

Azure Event Hubs (Collects telemetry and event data. Streams it to consumers)
Azure Event Hubs is a high-throughput data ingestion and streaming service. It’s built to collect massive volumes of telemetry and 
event data from multiple sources (apps, services, devices), and stream it to consumers for real-time processing or storage.

Think of Event Hubs like a supercharged data firehose—it lets you shove millions of events per second into Azure, and then lets 
your services consume and analyze that stream however they need to. Consumer pulls from partitions.
How an Event Hub works:
1) Producer sends events to a centralized service (like Azure Event Hub).
2) Events are stored temporarily (in partitions or queues).
3) Consumers poll or fetch events from that store when they're ready.
4) Each consumer controls its own read position (offset).

Azure Event Grid is a fully managed event routing service designed to enable event-driven architectures. Event Grid allows you to 
easily build applications that react to changes or events in your Azure environment or from custom sources. Listens for events from 
supported sources (like Azure Blob Storage, Resource Groups, or custom apps). Routes those events to subscribed handlers (like Azure 
Functions, Logic Apps, Event Hubs, or webhooks). Delivers events in near real-time.

What is the difference between Event Hubs and Event Grid?

Feature			Event Grid											Event Hubs
Primary Use		Event routing and notification (react to changes)	High-throughput event ingestion and streaming
Ideal For		Lightweight event-driven apps						Telemetry and log ingestion from apps/devices
Event Size		Small (≤1 MB per event)								Large volumes (up to 1 MB per message, billions/day)
Storage			No message retention beyond delivery				Messages retained for 1–90 days

Use Event Hub when you need to handle high-volume, high-speed event streams for analytics or data pipelines.
Use Event Grid for lightweight event notifications and reactive workflows between Azure services or external systems.

When to Use Each
Scenario:											Use This:
Ingesting telemetry from IoT devices or apps		Event Hub
Sending notifications when a blob is created		Event Grid
Logging clicks, app usage, or game telemetry		Event Hub
Triggering Logic App when a VM is created			Event Grid
Building a stream processing pipeline				Event Hub
Orchestrating reactive workflows (event-driven)		Event Grid
---
Azure Service Bus (Think message queuing)
Azure Service Bus is a fully managed enterprise message broker — designed for reliable message delivery between decoupled 
components of a distributed system. It’s your go-to when systems need to talk to each other reliably, but can’t or shouldn’t be 
tightly coupled — think commands, business workflows, ordered delivery, and retry logic.

Service Bus supports a publish-subscribe model for one-to-many communication, allowing multiple subscribers to receive messages 
from a single publisher. Service Bus includes features like FIFO (First-In-First-Out) ordering, session management, and dead-letter 
queues for handling errors.
---
Azure Backup
Azure Backup is a cloud-based backup solution that provides data protection for on-premises and cloud-based workloads. It helps safeguard 
data from accidental deletion, corruption, and ransomware attacks. Performs Incremental Backups.
Backup Methods:
	Azure VM Backup     – Backs up entire virtual machines, including OS and data disks.
	Azure Files Backup  – Protects files stored in Azure Files shares.
	SQL Database Backup – Protects SQL databases on Azure VMs.
	On-Premises Backup  – Uses Azure Backup Server (MABS) or Azure Site Recovery for hybrid workloads.

Azure Backup is a PaaS offering, meaning it runs on Microsoft's managed cloud infrastructure and does 
not require you to manage the underlying hardware, storage, or backup so ftware. Azure Backup does not directly support backing up 
native Azure PaaS services like Azure SQL Database, Azure Blob Storage, or Cosmos DB. These have their own built-in backup mechanisms
---
To guarantee 99.95% VM connectivity, you must deploy at least two VMs in the same Availability Set in Azure. This is because Availability 
Sets ensure that your VMs are physically separated across multiple hardware servers within an Azure datacenter, providing redundancy and 
minimizing the risk of datacenter-wide failures. If you have only one VM in an Availability Set, you can still experience a single point 
of failure if the hardware server that the VM is running on fails.

By deploying two or more VMs within an Availability Set, Azure will distribute them across different fault domains and update domains. 
This ensures that even if one fault domain or update domain experiences a disruption, your VMs will still be accessible via the other 
fault domain(s) or update domain(s).

For all Virtual Machines that have two or more instances deployed across two or more Availability Zones in the same Azure region, Azure 
guarantees you will have Virtual Machine Connectivity to at least one instance at least 99.99% of the time.
---
Azure Cloud Shell is a browser-based, interactive shell that provides a command-line environment for managing Azure resources. 
It allows users to execute Azure CLI, Azure PowerShell, and other tools without needing local installations. Azure Cloud Shell is 
ideal for automation and scripting, while the Azure Portal is more user-friendly for visual management. By accessing Cloud Shell from 
their iPhone, users can manage the web app's settings and perform administrative tasks using the command-line tools.
---
Traffic Manager
Azure Traffic Manager is a DNS-based traffic routing service that directs user requests to the best-performing or most available 
endpoint based on predefined routing methods. It improves high availability, performance, and geo-distribution of applications across 
multiple regions.

Key Benefits of Traffic Manager
Global Load Balancing – Routes traffic across different Azure regions.
ProvideHigh Availability & Failover – Automatically redirects traffic if an endpoint goes down.
Performance Optimization – Routes users to the closest or fastest endpoint.
Scalability – Supports applications deployed in multiple locations.
Multi-Cloud & Hybrid Support – Can route traffic to Azure, on-premises, or even other cloud providers.
---
Azure Local Network Gateway (LNG)
The Local Network Gateway (LNG) in Azure represents your on-premises network when setting up a VPN connection between Azure and your 
local infrastructure. The Local Network Gateway stores the necessary information about your on-prem network, such as public IP address 
and subnet details, so that Azure Virtual Network Gateway can establish a secure connection.
	Key Functions of Local Network Gateway
	Connects On-Premises to Azure – Used for Site-to-Site (S2S) VPN and ExpressRoute connections.
	Stores On-Premises Network Information – Includes public IP of the VPN device and BGP settings.
	Works with Virtual Network Gateway – Helps establish encrypted tunnels between Azure and on-prem resources.
* A Virtual Network Gateway represents Azure's VPN endpoint.
---
Azure Front Door (Entry point for Web Applications. Global Load Balancing and Application Acceleration)
Azure Front Door is a global, scalable entry point for web applications. It provides application acceleration,
global load balancing, SSL offloading, and web application firewall (WAF) capabilities. It helps improve the performance
and availability of web applications by routing traffic to the nearest Azure region and optimizing content delivery.

Azure Front Door is ideal for scenarios where you need to distribute traffic across multiple regions,
optimize web application performance, and enhance security with WAF. It is commonly used for global applications,
content delivery, and scenarios requiring SSL offloading. Azure Front Door is a Layer 7 (HTTP/HTTPS) load balancer.
Front Door - Distributes and redirects traffic to healthy regions during failover

* SSL Offloading is the process of handling SSL/TLS encryption and decryption on a separate device — like a load balancer or 
reverse proxy — instead of on your backend servers.
---
Azure Load Balancer is a Layer 4 (TCP/UDP) load balancer that distributes incoming network traffic across multiple servers or
services within a single region. It operates at the transport layer. Load Balancer can distribute traffic both within a Virtual 
Network (VNet) and outside of it, depending on the type of load balancer used. Types of Azure Load Balancers:

Internal Load Balancer:
Distributes traffic within a VNet. Used for private network scenarios where backend resources need to communicate internally.
Ideal for applications that require internal load balancing without exposing endpoints to the internet.

Public Load Balancer:
Distributes traffic from external sources to resources inside a VNet. Used for internet-facing applications where 
incoming traffic needs to be balanced across multiple backend resources.
---
If a company wants to ensure application availability even if an entire Azure region fails, they need a disaster 
recovery (DR) strategy. DR involves replicating in and recovering from duplicated resources in a secondary region to 
maintain business continuity in case of a regional outage. 

For high availability and disaster recovery, use geo-redundant storage across multiple regions.

A Hybrid Cloud is a combination of on-premises infrastructure and Azure cloud services. A private cloud can be connected to an 
on-premises service, enabling seamless integration between cloud-based and on-prem workloads. This setup is common in hybrid cloud 
architectures, where organizations extend their on-prem infrastructure to a private cloud for flexibility and scalability.

A private cloud is typically a cloud environment dedicated to a single organization, either hosted on-premises or by a third party.

When migrating or expanding your on-premises servers, you are able to choose a private, hybrid, or public cloud model.
Private cloud only serves one organization without public integration. Both a public or private cloud does not integrate 
directly with on-premises servers without being a hybrid model.

Every Azure region has multiple data centers.
---
SQL Server Stretch Database is a feature in SQL Server that allows you to dynamically extend your on-premises database to Azure, 
keeping historical or less frequently accessed data in the cloud without affecting application performance.
	How SQL Server Stretch Database Works
	1) Identify Cold Data – Choose tables or rows that are infrequently accessed.
	2) Enable Stretch Database – SQL Server automatically migrates selected data to Azure SQL Database.
	3) Query Data as Usual – Queries retrieve data from both on-prem and Azure, without requiring changes to applications.
	4) Manage Performance & Costs – Optimize storage costs by keeping hot data on-prem and cold data in Azure.
---
Advantages of Using Transaction-Optimized Pricing in Azure
Transaction-Optimized Pricing is a storage pricing model in Blob Storage designed for workloads with high transaction 
rates and small object sizes. It offers cost savings by optimizing for transaction-heavy workloads instead of optimizing for
storage capacity.

An Azure Network Security Group (NSG) is a security feature that controls inbound and outbound traffic to resources at the 
network level. It acts as a virtual firewall, allowing or denying traffic based on defined security rules.
Rules are applied based on source, destination, port, and protocol. NSGs can block or allow HTTP (port 80) but cannot inspect 
the actual HTTP request like a Web Application Firewall does.

Third-party cloud services and on-premises Active Directory can be used to access Azure resources. This is known as ‘federation’.
A Federation is a collection of domains that have established trust. The level of trust may vary, but typically includes 
authentication and authorization. A typical federation might include a number of organizations that have established trust for 
shared access to a set of resources.

Azure File Sync (AFS) allows you to centralize file storage in Azure Files while keeping local copies on Windows Server. 
It enables you to sync, cache, and tier files across multiple locations while maintaining fast local access.
It basically syncs multiple servers with the same Azure file share, ensuring real-time updates and two way synchronization. 

Azure File Sync can sync files across regions, but with some caveats you should be aware of. The Azure File Share itself is tied 
to a single storage account in a single region. All sync traffic (from remote servers) routes through that region. Servers 
farther from the storage account's region will experience higher latency and slower sync performance.

Virtual Network Peering is an networking feature that enables connectivity between virtual networks deployed in the same 
region or across different regions. By configuring a virtual network peering, you can establish private and secure 
communication between the peered virtual networks. In this scenario, using virtual network peering, you can connect VNet1 and 
VNet2, allowing resources within each network to communicate with each other. Virtual Network Peering connects Azure VNets for 
seamless, high-speed private communication without using gateways.

Availability Sets ensure high availability by distributing VMs across multiple fault domains (hardware racks) and 
update domains (maintenance groups) to minimize downtime from hardware failures or Azure updates. 

Azure Marketplace is an online store that offers various applications and services designed for use in Azure. It includes 
pre-configured virtual machine images optimized for different applications, including WordPress. By using Azure Marketplace, a 
developer can quickly launch a virtual machine that is already set up for WordPress, reducing the time and complexity involved 
in manual configuration.

Azure Arc is a hybrid management solution that enables management of on-premises, multi-cloud, and edge environments using Azure 
services. Azure Arc allows you to manage servers, Kubernetes clusters, and applications across on-premises, multi-cloud, and 
edge environments from a single control plane. With Azure Arc, you can use Azure management services such as Azure Policy, 
Azure Monitor, and Azure Security Center to manage resources outside of Azure. Arc provides a consistent develoment, operations,
and security model across all environments. It simplifies governance and management. Arc estends ARM capabilities to LINUx and 
Windows sevvers as well as Kubernetes clusters across on-premises, multi-cloud, and edge environments.

* Edge environments refer to computing devices located near the data source (outside traditional data centers or clouds) that process 
data locally before sending it to the cloud.

Infrastructure as Code (IaC) is the practice of defining and managing your infrastructure using code, rather than manual processes 
or point-and-click tools. Instead of spinning up VMs, networks, or databases by clicking around in a cloud portal (like Azure or AWS), 
you write scripts or configuration files that declare what the infrastructure should look like, then apply them to create or update 
that infrastructure automatically.

Azure Application Gateway is a web traffic load balancer that enables you to manage traffic to your web applications. Provides a
Web Application Firewall and Session Affinity (sessions are consistently routed to the same backend server). It is a regional service, 
meaning that it can only manage and route traffic to back-end resources within the same region where it is deployed.

Azure Budgets is a tool for setting and enforcing spending thresholds within Azure. 

Azure Usage and Charges Reports allow you to download raw data so you can perform your own analytics on your spending.

You can map a network drive from your Windows machines to the Azure Storage Account by creating an Azure Files Share.

A Network Security Group (NSG) is a security feature in Azure that controls inbound and outbound traffic to Azure resources at the 
network level. It acts as a virtual firewall, filtering traffic based on rules that allow or deny access to specific network resources.
Traffic can be allowed or denied based on source, destination, port, and protocol. Traffic Filtering at the Network Level(IP, TCP/UDP).
NSGs can be applied to:
	* Subnet – Affects all VMs and resources in that subnet.
	* Network Interface (NIC) – Affects only a specific VM.

The Service Trust Portal is a Microsoft resource provided that helps organizations manage compliance and data protection in Azure. 
It offers tools, documents, and guidance to understand Microsoft's security, privacy, and compliance practices. Key features 
include access to audit reports, compliance resources, and trust-related information to meet regulatory requirements and ensure 
data security in the cloud.

Azure Security Center is a unified security management system and threat protection solution for Azure resources and hybrid 
environments. It helps organizations strengthen their security posture, detect vulnerabilities, and respond to threats effectively.
It provides continuous security assessment, threat detection, and security recommendations for Azure resources. It also offers
security management for on-premises and hybrid environments.

Static Web Apps is a service that automatically builds and deploys full-stack static web apps to Azure from a code repository. 
A full-stack static web application is a web app that:
	1) Has a static frontend – Uses HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and frameworks like React, Angular, or Vue.
	2) Integrates with backend APIs – Connects to Azure Functions or external services for dynamic functionality.
	3) Is hosted on a globally distributed content delivery network (CDN) for fast performance.
Static Web Apps hosts the static frontend and integrates it with backend APIs, authentication, and CI/CD for automated deployment.

Communication Services is a fully managed cloud-based communication platform that enables developers to add voice, video, 
chat, SMS, and email capabilities to applications using Microsoft's secure infrastructure (the same backbone as Microsoft Teams).

Azure Data Factory (ADF) is a cloud-based data integration service that allows you to orchestrate, automate, and transform data 
workflows across various sources and destinations.
* Data integration refers to the process of combining data from multiple sources into a unified view for analysis, 
  reporting, or processing.
Key Features:
	Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) & Extract, Load, Transform (ELT) processing.
	Integrates data from on-premises, cloud, and SaaS data sources (SQL, APIs, Blob Storage, etc.).
	No-code & code-based options for data transformation using Data Flows or Azure Databricks.
	Scheduled and event-driven workflows with pipelines and triggers.
	Monitoring & logging for data movement and transformation.
	Use Case: Moving data from an on-prem SQL database to Azure Data Lake for analytics. 
---
Azure API Management is a platform-as-a-service (PaaS) solution designed to manage APIs across various environments, including 
cloud and on-premises. It provides tools for creating, publishing, securing, and monitoring APIs throughout their lifecycle. 
Key features include:
API Gateway: Acts as a central entry point for API requests, enabling routing, transformation, and security.
 Management Plane: Offers administrative capabilities for API configuration, monitoring, and analytics.
 Developer Portal: Facilitates API discovery and consumption by developers with self-service capabilities.
 Azure API Management supports hybrid and multicloud scenarios

*Transformation refers to the process of modifying API requests and responses as they pass through the API Gateway. 
Examples of transformation include:
 Rewriting URLs: Adjusting the request path to match backend endpoints.
 Changing Formats: Converting data formats (e.g., from XML to JSON or vice versa).
 Modifying Headers: Adding, removing, or altering HTTP headers in requests or responses.
 Filtering Data: Removing unnecessary fields from a response payload to improve efficiency.
 These transformations help ensure compatibility between clients and backend services while optimizing performance and security.
---
In Azure's hierarchy, a tenant is defined at the topmost level. It represents an instance of Azure Active Directory (AAD), 
containing all Management Groups, Subscriptions, and Resource Groups within it. Essentially, the tenant acts as the overarching 
identity and access boundary for an organization in Azure.

An App Service Plan defines the pricing, scaling, and compute resources for Azure App Services.
In App Service (Web Apps, API Apps, or Mobile Apps), an app always runs in an App Service plan. An App Service plan defines a set 
of compute resources for a web app to run. When you create an App Service plan in a certain region, a set of compute resources is 
created for that plan in that region. Whatever apps you put into this App Service plan run on these compute resources as defined 
by your App Service plan. Each App Service plan defines:
	Operating System (Windows, Linux)
	Region (West US, East US, etc.)
	Number of VM instances
	Size of VM instances (Small, Medium, Large)
	Pricing tier (Free, Shared, Basic, Standard, Premium, PremiumV2, PremiumV3, Isolated)
---
Hyper-V is Microsoft's virtualization technology. Hyper-V turns one machine into many by running multiple virtualized OS 
environments. If you need to run a lab, test software, or isolate services — Hyper-V gets it done without extra hardware.
---
Using multiple resource groups within a single subscription is another way to segment Azure for departments. Each department can 
have its own dedicated resource group to manage their resources. Resource groups provide logical containers for organizing and 
managing resources, allowing department administrators to control access, apply policies, and manage resources specific to their 
department.

By creating multiple Azure subscriptions, each department can have its own dedicated subscription. This allows for better isolation 
and control over resources, as each department administrator can manage their own subscription independently. It provides a clear 
separation of resources, access controls, and billing, ensuring that each department has autonomy over their Azure resources.
---
Premium storage, is not applicable to Azure Blob Storage. Premium storage is primarily associated with Azure managed disks and 
Azure Files, offering high-performance storage for specific workloads that demand low latency and high IOPS (input/output 
operations per second).

What are the access tiers for blob storage?
Azure Blob Storage offers the following access tiers to optimize cost and performance based on data usage:
Hot Tier: Designed for frequently accessed or modified data. It has higher storage costs but lower access costs.

Cool Tier: Suitable for infrequently accessed data that needs to be stored for at least 30 days. It has lower storage costs 
and higher access costs compared to the hot tier.

Cold Tier: Ideal for rarely accessed data that requires fast retrieval. Data must be stored for at least 90 days. It offers 
lower storage costs than the cool tier but higher access costs.

Archive Tier: Best for data that is rarely accessed and can tolerate retrieval latency of hours. Data must be stored for at least 
180 days, offering the lowest storage costs but the highest access costs.

Premium storage
Azure Premium Storage is a high-performance storage solution designed for workloads that require low latency and high throughput. 
It uses solid-state drives (SSDs) to deliver consistent and reliable performance for demanding applications.
Optimized for SQL Server, Oracle, and other database workloads. Premium storage is available for Blob storage in Azure. 
Specifically, Premium Block Blob Storage accounts are designed for scenarios requiring low latency and high throughput.
---
Azure Bastion is a service you deploy that lets you connect to a virtual machine using your browser and the Azure portal. The 
Azure Bastion service is a PaaS service that you provision inside your virtual network. It is designed to provide secure and 
seamless Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) and Secure Shell (SSH) connectivity to virtual machines (VMs) in Azure. It eliminates 
the need for public IP addresses on VMs, enhancing security by reducing exposure to the internet.
---
What advantages does High Availability bring to cloud computing?
1) High availability enables load balancing across multiple resources, preventing overloading of any single resource.
2) It enables organizations to easily scale their resources based on their needs.
3) It allows for redundancy of resources, ensuring that if one resource fails, another can take its place without interruption.
---
A computing environment that combines a public cloud and a private cloud by allowing data and applications to be shared between them
is a Hybrid Cloud.
---
Azure Policy is a service that allows you to enforce and apply organizational standards and policies on Azure resources. While it 
contributes to security and compliance by enforcing certain rules and configurations, it does not provide a specific platform for 
accessing compliance documentation, audit reports, and Microsoft's privacy and compliance commitments like the Azure Service Trust 
Portal does.

Azure Service Trust Portal is the platform that provides access to compliance documentation, audit reports, and security controls 
related to Azure services. It serves as a centralized hub for accessing information on various compliance programs, including 
certifications, attestations, and regulatory standards. The Service Trust Portal offers transparency into Microsoft's privacy and 
compliance commitments, allowing organizations to assess the security and compliance of their Azure deployments. By using the Azure 
Service Trust Portal, security administrators can stay up-to-date with the latest information and ensure the security and compliance 
of their Azure cloud services.

Azure Functions provides the platform for serverless code. Azure Functions is a serverless compute service that lets you run 
event-triggered code without having to explicitly provision or manage infrastructure.
---
For all Virtual Machines that have two or more instances deployed across two or more Availability Zones in the same Azure region, 
it is guaranteed that you will have Virtual Machine Connectivity to at least one instance at least 99.99% of the time."
---
The Azure Pricing Calculator allows users to compare pricing between different Azure regions. This helps organizations assess the 
cost implications of deploying their workloads in different regions and choose the most cost-effective option based on their 
requirements. By using the Azure Pricing Calculator, users can estimate the cost of running specific Azure services and resources. 
They can input details such as the number of instances, storage usage, data transfer, and other factors to get a comprehensive cost 
estimate for their chosen services.

Azure Cost Management is designed for monitoring, analyzing, and optimizing ongoing Azure spending after migration. It helps track 
and control costs in an Azure environment but does not assist with estimating pre-migration cost savings.

The Azure TCO Calculator is specifically designed to help businesses estimate the cost savings of migrating their workloads to Azure. 
It allows users to input details about their current on-premises infrastructure (e.g., server counts, storage usage, and energy costs) 
and provides a detailed analysis comparing the total cost of ownership for on-premises versus Azure. This tool is focused on migration 
scenarios.
---
Azure Log Analytics is the ideal Azure service for addressing a company's log monitoring and analysis requirements. It provides 
a centralized platform for collecting, analyzing, and visualizing log data from various sources, including on-premises servers 
and cloud-based resources. With Log Analytics, the company can ingest and store logs, perform advanced queries using a powerful 
query language, create custom dashboards and visualizations, set up alerts and notifications, and gain valuable insights into 
system performance, security, and operational issues.
---
To guarantee 99.95% VM connectivity, you must deploy at least two VMs in the same Availability Set in Azure. This is because 
Availability Sets ensure that your VMs are physically separated across multiple hardware servers within an Azure datacenter, 
providing redundancy and minimizing the risk of datacenter-wide failures. If you have only one VM in an Availability Set, you 
can still experience a single point of failure if the hardware server that the VM is running on fails.

By deploying two or more VMs within an Availability Set, Azure will distribute them across different fault domains and update 
domains. This ensures that even if one fault domain or update domain experiences a disruption, your VMs will still be accessible 
via the other fault domain(s) or update domain(s).
---
Azure Migrate is a service to help organizations plan, assess, and execute the migration of their on-premises workloads to Azure. 
It offers tools and guidance for discovering existing resources, evaluating their readiness for migration, and performing the 
migration with minimal downtime.
---
Data Box is a physical device provided by Microsoft to help organizations transfer large amounts of data to and from Azure 
in a secure, efficient, and cost-effective way. It is particularly useful when transferring terabytes or petabytes of data 
over the network is impractical due to bandwidth limitations or time constraints.
---
Azure AD B2B collaboration allows organizations to securely share resources and collaborate with external partners who have their 
own identity systems. The company can invite the external vendors as guests in their Azure AD and grant them access to specific 
resources. Azure AD B2B collaboration ensures that external users are authenticated and authorized before accessing resources.

Azure Machine Learning Designer is a drag-and-drop tool within Azure Machine Learning Studio that allows users to visually build, 
deploy, and manage machine learning pipelines without writing extensive code. It simplifies the process of creating machine 
learning workflows by providing prebuilt components and custom components that can be connected to form a pipeline.

Azure Sphere is a software and hardware solution that provides communication and security features for IoT devices. Sphere = Secure.
* An IoT (Internet of Things) device is any physical object that connects to the internet and exchanges data with other systems. 
These devices often have sensors, processors, and communication capabilities that allow them to gather and transmit information, 
automate tasks, and interact with the digital world.
---
Azure Cognitive Services are a collection of AI-powered APIs and SDKs from Microsoft that let you add intelligent features — like 
vision, speech, language understanding, and decision-making — to your apps without needing to build and train machine learning 
models yourself.
---
High availability (HA) in Azure does not refer only to storage types — it's a broader concept that applies to many services, 
including compute, networking, databases and applications.

High availability allows for redundancy of resources, meaning that if one resource fails, another can take its place without 
interruption. This helps ensure that services remain available to users even in the event of a failure or outage.

High availability enables organizations to easily scale their resources based on their needs.

High availability is provided by load balancing across multiple resources, thus preventing overloading of any single resource.
---
When using Geo-Redundant Storage (GRS) in Azure, data is first copied synchronously three times within a single physical location 
in the primary region (this is known as Locally Redundant Storage (LRS) within that region). Then, asynchronously, the data is 
replicated to the secondary region, where it is also stored three times within a single physical location in that secondary region.
3 + 3 = 6 copies of the data.

An Analytics rule detects threats from log patterns, generates alerts. An Automation rule triggers responses based on incident 
attributes, not detection. An incident attribute refers to metadata or properties associated with an incident, not the raw 
detection or alert itself. Concrete Example:
If an automation rule is set up to act only on incidents with severity = "High", then "Severity: High" is the incident attribute 
it's using to trigger a response.

A ReadOnly lock (CanNotDelete) prevents any changes to the resource. If a resource has a ReadOnly lock applied, other locks 
cannot be added unless the ReadOnly lock is removed first. The ReadOnly lock restricts all modifications, including adding 
additional locks or tags to the resource.

Azure Automation is a cloud-based automation service that helps manage and deploy Azure resources efficiently. It allows users 
to automate repetitive, time-consuming tasks, ensuring consistency and reducing errors. Uses runbooks (PowerShell, Python, or 
graphical workflows) to automate tasks like resource provisioning and configuration.

Software licensing is generally treated as an operating expense (OpEx).

Geo-distribution makes a service or application available in multiple geographic locations that are typically close to your users.
Geo-location allows you to deploy applications to regional datacenters around the world.

Availability zones are primarily for virtual machines, managed disks, load balancers, and SQL databases.

*** End Randowm_Notes in main ***
--------------------------------------------------------------
Defintions_Explanations

Provisioning - Making something available or providing resources.
Provisioning generally refers to the act of making something available or providing resources. In information technology, it 
specifically means the process of creating and setting up IT infrastructure, managing user access, and making data available to 
systems and users. 


Which two Azure resources can make use of availability zones? Each correct answer presents a complete solution.
Availability zones are primarily for virtual machines, managed disks, load balancers, and SQL databases.

Which Azure compute service can you use to deploy and manage a set of identical virtual machines?
Virtual Machine Scale Sets are an Azure compute resource that you can use to deploy and manage and scale a set of identical virtual machines.

What can you use to provide Mac and Android users with access to a Windows environment that will run Windows-based applications?
Azure Virtual Desktop

Which two protocols can be used to access Azure file shares? Each correct answer presents a complete solution
Network File System (NFS) or Server Message Block (SMB)

What Microsoft Entra feature can you use to configure security authentication that requires users to use their mobile phone to sign in?
multi-factor authentication (MFA)

Which two services are provided by Microsoft Entra? Each correct answer presents a complete solution.
single sign-on (SSO) and authentication

Which two factors affect Azure costs? Each correct answer presents a complete solution.
resource location and resource usage

Which are two common scenarios for using resource tags? Each correct answer presents a complete solution.
associating costs with different environments and categorizing costs by department

You need to ensure that multi-factor authentication (MFA) is enabled on accounts with write permissions in an Azure subscription.
What should you implement?
Azure Policy

What can you use to restrict the deployment of a virtual machine to a specific location?
Azure Policy

What can you use to ensure that a development team can only create virtual machines of a certain size?
Azure Policy

Which two actions can be performed by using Azure portal? Each correct answer presents a complete solution.
Create new resources or Create Microsoft Entra user. You cannot Assign deny permission on a resource group or
change the availability zone of a virtual machine.

Which management layer accepts requests from any Azure tool or API and enables you to create, update, and delete 
resources in an Azure account?
Azure Resource Manager (ARM)

Which Azure service evaluates Azure resources and makes recommendations to help improve reliability, security, 
performance, and cost reduction?
Azure Advisor

What should you proactively review and act on to avoid service interruptions, such as service retirements and breaking changes?
health advisories

Which Azure service can generate an alert if virtual machine utilization is over 80% for five minutes?
Azure Monitor

What can you use to find information about planned maintenance for Azure services that are critical to your organization?
Azure Service Health